EVENING, EVERYONE.
WELCOME TO THE SEPTEMBER 16
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
SUPPORT OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
SUCCESS ONE NATION INDIVISIBLE
WITH LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR
ALL.
BUT I CAN'T PLEASE CALL THE
ROLE OF COUNCIL MEMBER HERE
BECAUSE FOR HEROISM HERE COMES
MURSAU APSA COUNCILOR WATSON
HERE BECAUSE WE'RE NOT HERE TO
WORK OUTSIDE HERE.
>> I'LL SAY I'M ATTENDING THIS
MEETING PERSONALLY AND I'M
CURRENTLY LOCATED IN ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
I'M ATTENDING THIS MEETING
VIRTUALLY DUE TO A SERIOUS KNEE
INJURY THAT PREVENTS ME FROM
BEING WITH FROM MY LIKE MAYOR
TAYLOR HERE TELLS ME I'M HERE
COUNCILOR HERE TELLS OUR
BRIGG'S HERE COUNCILMAN CORNELL
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
THEY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRIS DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA.
PERHAPS I MAY HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO FLIP THE TWO
INTRODUCTIONS SUCH THAT WE HAVE
THE PROCLAMATION WELCOMING
VISITORS FROM OUR SISTER CITY
TO IN GERMANY BEFORE OUR MUCH
ANTICIPATED UPDATE FROM THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCILOR DENHA SECOND MY
WATSON IS THAT FRIENDLY TO THE
BODY IT'S FRIENDLY FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA AS
AMENDED ON FAVOR POSED THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATION TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR NO
MATTER WELL THEN WE DO HAVE THE
AFFIRMATION MENTIONED
INTRODUCTIONS FIRST A
PROCLAMATION WELCOMING VISITORS
FROM OUR SISTER CITY TO GERMANY
.
MEET ME UP AT THE FRONT PLEASE
AT THE FRONT RIGHT HERE.
EVERYBODY COME OFF.
EVERYBODY
HAVE CAMERAS UP
THERE.
OK, SO AS AS MANY AS MANY FOLKS
KNOW, ANN ARBOR HAS HAS A
NUMBER OF SISTER CITIES BUT OUR
OUR LONGEST STANDING SISTER
CITY RELATIONSHIP IS WITH THE
CITY OF TUBING IN GERMANY FIRST
FROM NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE.
WE ARE SO INCREDIBLY EXCITED TO
HAVE THESE FINE FOLKS FROM TO
BEGIN VISITING TO US HERE IN
ANN ARBOR.
SOME OF US BOTH ON STAFF CITY
AND AND OF COURSE THE COMMUNITY
WE'RE ABLE SO FORTUNATE TO GO
OUT TO TO BE IN LAST YEAR WE
LEARNED A GREAT NUMBER
OF THINGS.
WE WERE INSPIRED TO TO TAKE A
LITTLE BIT OF TO BEGIN HOME
HERE IN ANN ARBOR FOR MY PART I
TOOK BICYCLES AND SPETZLER AND
IT WAS IT WAS IT'S MADE MY LIFE
ALL THE BETTER AND SO IS MY
GREAT PLEASURE TO INTRODUCE AND
WELCOME LORD MAYOR BORIS PALMER
WITH WITH THE PROCLAMATION
DECLARING THAT THE TODAY IS THE
TO BEGIN AND ANN ARBOR SISTER
CITY DAY AND ENCOURAGING ALL
MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY TO TO
WELCOME AND WELCOME OUR
DELEGATION AND TO CELEBRATE IN
IT.
AND NOW I'D LIKE TO TURN TO THE
MIKE IN THE FLOOR OVER TO LORD
MAYOR PALMER AND THE REST
OF THE TEAM AND SO WE'RE VERY
THERE YOU GO
.
DEAR COLLEAGUE, DEAR COUNCILORS
,CITIZENS, THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR YOUR HOSPITALITY AND THE
WONDERFUL PROGRAM.
WE REALLY ENJOY BEING HERE AND
ESPECIALLY THE BLUE SKY IS
WONDERFUL SINCE WE COME FROM
VERY COLD WEATHER AT HOME.
IT'S A GREAT TIME BEING HERE
AND OF COURSE TO EXPRESS OUR
GREAT THANKFULNESS WE BROUGHT
SOMETHING TO EVEN EXPORT MORE
FROM TO BE ON TO AN ALBUM.
NOT ONLY DOES THE MEDIA DRIVE A
BICYCLE NOW BUT HE WILL HAVE
WONDERFUL, WONDERFUL BELLS NOW
FOR GOOD FOR HIS BICYCLE TO
READ AND THE BELLS TO BEGIN
GOES BLUE LIKE IT HOWEVER IN
CASE YOU DON'T WEAR A HELMET
YOU CAN WEAR YOU CAN WEAR THIS
WONDERFUL BLUE HAT AND THEN
BEFORE THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
AND THE MAYOR WE HAVE SOMETHING
THE COUNCIL MAY CONSIDER THE
TUEBINGEN COUNCIL DECIDED TO
INTRODUCE A NEW TAX ON ONE WAY
STUFF THE PLASTIC LIKE CUPS AND
THE DISHES LIKE THAT AND
THEREFORE THIS HAS BECOME VERY
VALUABLE REUSABLE.
SO WE HAVE A REUSABLE BURGER
BOX HAMBURGER CHEESEBURGER,
WHATEVER YOU LIKE.
THESE ARE THE SPECIAL BURGER
AIR CONDITIONING.
YES, SO THIS IS FOR BURGERS.
THIS IS FOR ANY OTHER STUFF AND
WE ALSO BROUGHT STONES FROM THE
RIVER THAT FLOWS THROUGH TO
EVEN CAN EAT THEM AND THAT'S
MORE MEMORIES PERFECT TO SHARE.
SO THAT MADE THAT INSPIRED THE
CYCLING TRIP DID AND KNOW THAT
WE HAVE THE SAME FOR YOU SINCE
STAFF NORMALLY HAS TO DRINK A
LOT OF COFFEE.
WE BROUGHT YOU THE REUSABLE
COFFEE CUP THEY CAST.
WELL THANKS VERY MUCH FOR
HAVING ALL RIGHT.
AND HAVE A GOOD TIME WITH YOU
JUST KIND OF OH I'M BUT THIS IS
ALSO FOR YOU SOME PICTURES TO
REMEMBER.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I'M INTO BEING THIS IS A
CALENDAR THAT'S VALID FOR EVERY
YEAR SO YOU CAN HAVE A DOLLAR
FOR THE REST OF YOUR FIRM WORK.
ALL RIGHT.
I'LL LEAVE IT FOR THE REST
OF THE ADMINISTRATION.
IT'S A DEAL.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK THANK YOU WAY YOU REALLY
LIKE IT SO, SO GOOD.
THANK YOU.
I DO LIKE YOU.
THANKS A LOT.
OH DON'T FORGET MY I COULD SAY
IT FROM THE DIAL FROM THE FROM
THE THE CHAIRMAN OF NASA FROM
HERE I'M SURE YOU HAVE TO THANK
YOU
.
WAITING FOR MARCUS TO BRING UP
MY PRESENTATION
.
OH THERE YOU GO.
GREAT THANK YOU.
WELL THANK YOU EVERYBODY FOR
HAVING ME HERE TONIGHT.
I WANTED TO SHARE WITH YOU
TONIGHT AN UPDATE ON THE
DOWNTOWN AREA CIRCULATION STUDY
AND AS A REMINDER THIS STUDY IS
A COLLABORATION BETWEEN THE
DENHA AND CITY TRANSPORTATION
AND THIS IS ONE OF THE MAJOR
PLANNING EFFORTS UNDERWAY RIGHT
NOW THAT WILL BE INFORMING THE
DA'S NEW DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
SO WE ANTICIPATE HAVING
PROJECTS RECOMMENDATIONS COMING
OUT OF THIS STUDY THAT YOU WILL
SEE IN OUR NEW DEVELOPMENT PLAN
WHICH WE HOPE TO HAVE TO YOU
FOR CONSIDERATION BY NEXT
SUMMER.
>> SO LET'S SEE IF I CAN GET
THIS RIGHT THIS TIME.
>> YEP.
OK, THIS PROJECT HAS FOUR MAIN
COMPONENTS WE ARE LOOKING AT
EXPANDING OUR DOWNTOWN BIKEWAY
NETWORK.
WE ARE LOOKING AT TRANSIT
IMPROVEMENTS.
WE ARE LOOKING AT TWO WAY
RESTORATION OF FIFTH AND
DIVISION AND THE LAST COMPONENT
HAS HAS CHANGED SINCE WE BEGAN
THIS STUDY.
SO WE BEGIN THIS STUDY WITH THE
FOURTH COMPONENT OF LOOKING AT
EVENTS STREETS AFTER OUR PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS IN MARCH
AND AFTER MEETINGS WITH MANY
STAKEHOLDERS WE RECOGNIZED OH
THANK YOU.
WE RECOGNIZED THAT WE NEEDED TO
BROADEN THIS THIS PIECE OF THE
STUDY.
SO WE ARE NOW LOOKING AT IN
ADDITION TO EVENTS STREETS THE
PUBLIC REALM AS A WHOLE AND
THAT'S WHAT I'M GOING TO FOCUS
ON TONIGHT IS REVIEWING WITH
YOU SOME OF THE ITEMS THAT ARE
COMING OUT OF THE PUBLIC REALM
SECTION OF THIS STUDY.
SO WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
PUBLIC REALM AND INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENTS, THE
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WILL BE
COMING OUT OF THIS STUDY ARE
RELATED TO STREET DESIGN,
ENHANCE PUBLIC SPACES
PLACEMAKING AND WAYFINDING AND
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS THAT
CAN SUPPORT THOSE SEASONAL
STREET CLOSURES AND THE
ACTIVATION OF THOSE STREETS.
>> SO WITH STREET DESIGN WE'RE
LOOKING AT FLEXIBLE STREETS.
WE ARE LOOKING AT KERBEROS AND
SHARED STREETS AND I'LL PULL
OUT LIBERTY STREET AS A GOOD
EXAMPLE OF A POTENTIAL PROJECT
THAT WE SEE KIND OF RISING TO
THE TOP.
SO WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT LIBERTY
STREET, IT IS REALLY THE MAIN
CONNECTOR FROM THE STATE STREET
NEIGHBORHOOD DOWN TO THE MAIN
STREET NEIGHBORHOOD.
THAT STREET HAS NOT BEEN
TOUCHED IN A LONG TIME.
IF YOU ARE WALKING ALONG
LIBERTY I WOULD SUGGEST YOU
NOTICE THE VARIOUS WIDTHS
OF THE SIDEWALK.
IT CAN BE BLOCK TO BLOCK
SOMETIMES IT CAN BE FROM ONE
SIDE OF THE STREET TO THE NEXT.
>> THERE ARE ALSO SOME KIND
OF FUNKY LANE CONFIGURATIONS ON
CERTAIN BLOCKS OF LIBERTY
STREET SO WE REALLY BELIEVE
THAT LIBERTY STREET IS READY
FOR AN INTEREST A MAJOR
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT AND THAT
COULD BE REALLY TRANSFORMING
FOR OUR DOWNTOWN.
SO I WOULD SUSPECT THAT LIBERTY
STREET WOULD BE A PROJECT THAT
WOULD MAKE IT INTO OUR
DEVELOPMENT PLAN ENHANCED
PUBLIC SPACES.
SO WE ARE LOOKING AT THE
FARMER'S MARKET WHICH I KNOW
THE CITY WILL BE UNDERTAKING A
CAPITAL PROJECT IN THE NEXT
COUPLE OF YEARS SCULPTURE
PLAZA, LIBERTY PLAZA ALL
OF THESE SPACES ARE SPACES THAT
WE ARE SEEING AS OPPORTUNITIES
TO REALLY MAXIMIZE THEIR USE
RIGHT NOW THOSE SPACES ARE
SOMEWHAT MINIMAL IN THE
ELEMENTS THAT ARE IN THE PLAZAS
.
WE HAVE SOME EXAMPLES UP HERE
ON THE SCREEN.
THERE ARE LOTS OF FUN AND
INTERACTIVE THINGS THAT WE CAN
ADD TO ENCOURAGE FAMILIES TO
ENCOURAGE YOUNG PEOPLE, ALL
PEOPLE WE WANT TO GIVE PEOPLE
REASONS TO LINGER DOWNTOWN IN
ADDITION, WE ARE ALSO LOOKING
AT RECLAIMING SOME OF OUR
PUBLIC SPACE AND I'LL USE THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF STATE
STREET AND NORTHVIEW AS AN
EXAMPLE THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
ON THAT CORNER ACTUALLY EXTENDS
WELL BEYOND THE SIDEWALK.
IT'S REALLY WHAT WE NOW
CONSIDER PART OF THE DIAG AND
THAT'S ACTUALLY HAS QUITE A BIT
OF PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
SO THIS IS A SPACE THAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT FOR A POTENTIAL NEW
PLAZA AREA THAT THE STATE
STREET DISTRICT COULD USE FOR
ACTIVATION PLACEMAKING AND
WAYFINDING SO DENHA IS TAKING A
TWO PRONGED APPROACH WITH
PLACEMAKING AND WAYFINDING
THROUGH THE CIRCULATION STUDY
WE ARE LOOKING AT
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS THAT
WILL CONNECT NEIGHBORHOODS TO
PARKING STRUCTURES, CONNECT
NEIGHBORHOOD TO NEIGHBORHOOD
AND SEPARATELY FROM THAT WE ARE
ALSO UNDERTAKING PROJECTS
THROUGH A NEW PUBLIC ART AND
PLACEMAKING PROGRAM.
THE BOARD APPROVED IN JUNE.
THIS PROGRAM IS CALLED ELEVATE.
WE'RE ACTUALLY UNDERWAY.
WE'RE WORKING CLOSELY WITH THE
NEIGHBOR ART CENTER.
WE ACTUALLY HAVE TWO RFP
ALREADY OUT THE DOOR FOR WHAT I
THINK ARE SOME EXCITING
PROJECTS AND I'M GOING TO TALK
A LOT MORE ABOUT THE ELEVATE
PROGRAM AT OUR JOINT WORKING
SESSION IN OCTOBER AND THEN
FINALLY FOR SEASONAL STREETS
ACTIVATION, WE'RE LOOKING AT
INVESTMENTS, INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENTS THE DDA CAN MAKE TO
MAKE THOSE SEASONAL STREET
CLOSURES EASIER FOR
ORGANIZATIONS TO CLOSE TO
ACTIVATE MAINLY BARRICADE
IMPROVEMENTS.
I THINK WE CAN ALL AGREE THAT
OUR CURRENT BARRICADE SITUATION
IS LESS THAN IDEAL MAIN STREET
AREA ASSOCIATION HAS ACTUALLY
DONE A FABULOUS JOB WRAPPING
THOSE TYPE THREE BARRICADES.
THEY LOOK A WHOLE LOT BETTER
BUT WE'RE STILL DEALING WITH
THOSE PVC PCBS THAT YOU SEE
KIND OF STREWN TO SIDE TO SIDE
ON THE CLOSURES.
SO WE ARE LOOKING AT MANY
DIFFERENT OPTIONS.
THERE ARE OPTIONS RELATED TO
SEASONAL CLOSURES VERSUS LONG
TERM SO OUR HOPE IS THAT OUT
OF THIS STUDY WE'RE GOING TO
COME OUT WITH SOME SOLID
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS THAT
WILL SUPPORT NEIGHBORHOODS WHO
ARE DOING THESE SEASONAL OR
LONGER TERM STREET CLOSURES.
SO NAVIGATION AND SAFETY THIS
IS TALKING ABOUT TWO WAY
RESTORATION ON 5TH DIVISION.
THIS IS ACTUALLY A PROJECT THAT
HAS BEEN ON THE D RADAR FOR
QUITE A WHILE.
WE HAD IN IN OUR SIPI WE HAD A
STUDY FOR FOR STUDYING THIS TO
A RESTORATION ON 5TH DIVISION
FOR QUITE A WHILE AND IT GOT
INCORPORATED IT INTO THE
CIRCULATION STUDY FROM OUR
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT IN MARCH AND
FROM OUR STAKEHOLDER MEETINGS.
I CAN TELL YOU THAT THERE'S
REALLY BROAD SUPPORT FOR THIS
PROJECT BUT IT'S A COMPLICATED
PROJECT.
THIS IS NOT A PROJECT THAT
WE'RE GOING TO SEE IN THE
NEXT
FEW YEARS.
THIS IS A LONG RANGE PROJECT
THERE ARE A LOT OF CHALLENGING
INTERSECTIONS AND I WOULD ALSO
POINT OUT THAT SOME OF THIS
PROJECT AREA DOES EXTEND BEYOND
THE CURRENT BOUNDARIES.
BUT IF I WERE A BETTING WOMAN I
WOULD SAY THAT THIS IS GOING TO
BE INCLUDED IN OUR DEVELOPMENT
PLAN.
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT PROJECT
AND IN OUR BICYCLE SYSTEM.
SO RECOMMENDATIONS COMING OUT
OF THE STUDY FOR EXTENDING OUR
CURRENT DOWNTOWN BIKEWAY LOOP
INCLUDE AN EXTENSION OF THE
KATHERINE STREET BIKEWAY.
THE DIVISION'S BIKEWAY BROADWAY
PLYMOUTH SIDE PATH NORTH AND
SUMMIT CONNECTOR AND THEN SOME
TRAFFIC COMING IMPROVEMENTS ON
WASHINGTON STREET.
THE DOTTED LINES INDICATE TO
THOSE PROJECT AREAS AND MUCH
OF THOSE PROJECT AREAS DOES
EXTEND BEYOND THE CURRENT
BOUNDARIES.
AND THEN FINALLY TRANSIT
ENHANCEMENTS.
WE OF COURSE HAVE BEEN WORKING
REALLY CLOSELY WITH THE RTA AND
THEIR LONG RANGE PLANS AND ON
THIS I WOULD JUST SAY THAT OUR
OVERALL APPROACH IS TO RESERVE
STREET SPACE ON KEY TRANSIT
CORRIDORS FOR FUTURE
IMPROVEMENTS.
SO I THINK THERE'S STILL A LOT
OF STUDY TO BE DONE AND WORK TO
BE DONE BOTH ON THE SIDE AND ON
OUR SIDE.
BUT IN THE SHORT TERM WHAT
WE'RE LOOKING AT IS TRANSIT
IMPROVEMENTS ON RIGHT NOW
FOURTH AND FIFTH EVER RISING TO
THE TOP FROM WHAT WE'VE HEARD
FROM SO LOOKING AT SIGNAL
IMPROVEMENTS, TRANSIT SIGNAL
PRIORITIZATION, ALLOWING BUSSES
TO QUEUE UP AHEAD OF OTHER
VEHICLES AND FINALLY I WOULD
INVITE YOU ALL AND THE PUBLIC
TO JOIN US AT OUR NEXT DOWNTOWN
PLANNING OPEN HOUSE THAT
INCLUDES CIRCULATION STUDY AND
THE DOWNTOWN PIECE OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
IT WILL BE OCTOBER TWENTY THIRD
AT THE DOWNTOWN PUBLIC LIBRARY
AND I HOPE YOU ALL CAN MAKE IT
.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMON
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC RESERVE
TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL IN THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS
TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR CLERK
OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY
YOU WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
>> OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
JENNIFER HALL
.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR AND CITY
COUNCIL.
I WANT TO SPEAK ABOUT DC THREE
.
I WANT TO THANK CITY COUNCIL
FOR TAKING TIME TO SIGNAL TO
THE PUBLIC THEIR INTENT WHAT
THE CITY WOULD DO WITH THE
REBATE IF THE COUNTY MENTAL
HEALTH AND SAFETY SERVICES
MILLAGE IS RENEWED IN THIS
NOVEMBER.
BACK IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN CITY
COUNCIL DID THE SAME THING AND
I WANTED TO MAKE SURE THE
PUBLIC UNDERSTANDS THAT THAT IS
REALLY TO BE HELPFUL TO THE
PUBLIC SO THAT THEY UNDERSTAND
WHAT THEY'RE VOTING ON WHEN THE
ITEM COMES UP FOR VOTE ON THE
BALLOT AND FOR PEOPLE WHO DON'T
KNOW YOU CAN ACTUALLY GO TO THE
CITY'S WEBSITE AND THERE'S A
PLACE WHERE YOU CAN LOOK UP ALL
THE AGENDA ITEMS YOU CAN LOOK
UP MINUTES FROM CITY COUNCIL
AND THERE'S A RESOLUTION BACK
IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN RESOLUTION
SEVENTEEN DASH TWO SIX ONE THAT
WAS ADOPTED BY CITY COUNCIL WAS
ALSO AN INTENT OF HOW TO SPEND
THE MONEY AND BACK THEN THE
CITY COUNCIL SAID THAT THEY
WOULD LIKE TO SPEND 20 PERCENT
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY 40 PERCENT TO
AFFECT THE GOALS OF THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING NEEDS
ASSESSMENT AND INCREASE
WORKFORCE HOUSING INCLUSIVE
OF OPERATING AND CAPITAL WITH
GUIDANCE BY THE HOUSING AND
HUMAN SERVICE ADVISORY BOARD AT
FORTY PERCENT TO EFFECT THE
GOALS OF THE ANN ARBOR CLIMATE
ACTION.
SO HERE WE ARE SEVEN YEARS
LATER WITH AN EIGHT YEAR
MILLAGE.
IN THE MEANTIME THE FUNDS THAT
HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED ANNUALLY
THROUGH THE BUDGET PROCESS HAS
GONE TO THE ANAMBRA HOUSING
COMMISSION TO EFFECT THE
CAPITAL AND OPERATING FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UP UNTIL THE
CITY ADOPTED THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILLAGE ALL THOSE FUNDS
WERE REALLY GOING TO OUR
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES ONCE THE
CITY DID THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MILLAGE UP TO 20 PERCENT
OF THOSE FUNDS CAN BE USED FOR
SERVICES RELATED TO PROPERTIES
THAT WERE DEVELOPED WITH THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILLAGE.
SO SINCE THEN WE'VE ACQUIRED A
PROPERTY WE'VE GOT SEVERAL
PROPERTIES THAT ARE UNDER
DEVELOPMENT.
WE'VE FUNDED SEVERAL NONPROFIT
DOING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AND WE JUST TODAY
CLOSED ON A PROJECT FOR A FOR
PROFIT DEVELOPER WITH ANOTHER
ONE IN IN COMING IN LINE.
I WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
PUBLIC UNDERSTANDS HOW THOSE
FUNDS ARE USED AND SO AFTER THE
MILLAGE WAS ADOPTED, THE
HOUSING COMMISSION, INSTEAD
OF FUNDING ALL CAPITAL
PROJECTS, WE ENDED UP CHANGING
TO FUNDING SERVICES FOR
RESIDENTS THAT ARE LIVING IN
OUR SUPPORTIVE HOUSING AND IT'S
REALLY CRITICAL SERVICES.
AND SO I WANTED TO LET THE
PUBLIC KNOW THAT THEY CAN ALSO
LOOK UP RESOLUTION TWENTY
THREE, DASH TWO FOUR ONE WHICH
TALKS ABOUT HOW THOSE ARE.
>> BUT THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MATTHEW
WEBER
.
HELLO AND THANKS FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS THE
COUNCIL.
I AM A ANN ARBOR RESIDENT AND
RECENT APPOINTEE TO THE HOUSING
COMMISSION IN MY PROFESSIONAL
LIFE I WORK FOR A NATIONAL
NONPROFIT THAT HELPS
COMMUNITIES AROUND THE COUNTRY
STRENGTHEN THEIR HOMELESS
SYSTEMS OF CARE AND IN THAT
WORK IN ALL THE COMMUNITIES
WE'RE WORKING IN, WHETHER IT'S
IN CALIFORNIA OR OREGON OR
TEXAS OR PENNSYLVANIA OR NORTH
CAROLINA, ALL THOSE COMMUNITIES
ARE PURSUING HOUSING FIRST
APPROACH TO HOMELESSNESS WHICH
MEANS WHEN SOMEONE IS
EXPERIENCING A HOUSING CRISIS
WE ARE OFFERING THEM HOUSING AS
THERE FIRST OPTION THERE
WITHOUT IMPOSING CONDITIONS
SUCH AS BECOMING SOBER BEFORE
THEY GET THE HOUSING OR GETTING
THEIR MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES
UNDER CONTROL BEFORE THEY GET
THE HOUSING.
AND THAT'S A RECOGNITION BASED
ON NATIONAL BEST PRACTICES THAT
ONCE PEOPLE GET STABILIZED AND
HOUSING THEN THEY CAN DEAL WITH
ALL THAT OTHER STUFF THEY NEED
TO DO TO GET THEIR LIVES BACK
ON TRACK.
I WANTED TO TAKE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TALK TO
COUNSELORS TONIGHT ON THE SAME
RESOLUTION THAT JENNIFER HALL
ADDRESSED BECAUSE IN THE WORK I
DO EVERYONE IS PURSUING HOUSING
FIRST RECOGNIZES THAT CAN'T
HOUSING FIRST CAN'T BE HOUSING
ONLY IT NEEDS TO BE PAIRED WITH
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.
>> THAT'S WHAT MAKES THE MODEL
SUCCESSFUL.
AND AGAIN IN ALL THOSE
COMMUNITIES I WORK IN IT'S
REALLY RARE FOR LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS TO HAVE MONEY
AVAILABLE TO SUPPORT THOSE
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.
COMMUNITIES ARE SCRAMBLING
TRYING TO GET MONEY FROM HUD,
TRYING TO GET MONEY FROM
VARIOUS GRANT SOURCES SO NEVER
REALLY IS A NATIONAL MODEL IN
PROVIDING THAT FUNDING FOR
THOSE SUPPORTIVE SERVICES AND
IT'S IT'S SAVING LIVES.
IT IS MAKING THE HOUSING
INVESTMENT THAT ANN ARBOR HAS
ALREADY MADE MORE EFFECTIVE AND
I THINK ULTIMATELY IT'S SAVING
MONEY BECAUSE WE'RE NOT SENDING
PEOPLE OUT FOR EVEN MORE
SERVICES, EVEN MORE SUPPORT ON
THE PUBLIC COFFERS.
SO I REALLY JUST WANTED TO
APPLAUD THE CITY FOR ITS
COMMITMENT TO PROVIDING THOSE
SERVICES WITH THAT FUNDING.
I CAN TELL YOU THE COMMUNITIES
WE WORK IN WOULD BE JEALOUS
OF ANN ARBOR FOR HAVING THAT
FUNDING AVAILABLE AND I HOPE
YOU CONTINUE TO PROVIDE THAT
SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KENDRA
MARCAL
.
>> HI.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME
TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS KENDRA AND I'M
SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF THE RIGHT
TO SET BILL.
I HAVE BEEN A HAIRSTYLIST FOR
18 YEARS.
I ABSOLUTELY LOVE MY JOB AND I
COULDN'T IMAGINE SEEING MYSELF
DOING ANYTHING ELSE THE LAST
COUPLE OF YEARS HAVE BEEN A
LITTLE BIT DIFFICULT FOR ME.
I WAS BORN WITH SCOLIOSIS.
I HAVE BEEN AS I HAVE BEEN
GETTING OLDER.
IT HAS BEEN A LITTLE BIT MORE
DIFFICULT FOR ME TO DO MY JOB
WITHOUT EXPERIENCING PAIN.
ONE THING THAT HAS ABSOLUTELY
SAVED MY CAREER IS HAVING A
CHAIR TO SIT ON DURING MY WORK
DAY.
IT IS JUST A BASIC CHAIR WITH
FOUR WHEELS, A CUSHION SEAT AND
A SMALL BACK.
BEING ABLE TO SIT DURING A FEW
TESTS THROUGHOUT THE DAY HAS
MADE SO I CAN COMPLETE A FULL
DAY OF WORK WITHOUT BEING
EXTREMELY SORE.
IT IS THAT CHANGED MY
PRODUCTIVITY.
IN FACT THIS ON THE EXACT
OPPOSITE MEMORIAL AT WORK IS
BETTER AND MY PRODUCTIVITY IS
THE SAME WHETHER I'M SITTING IN
A CHAIR OR STANDING ON MY FEET
I I'M ABLE TO GO HOME TO MY
KIDS AND STILL LIVE A LIFE
INSTEAD OF HAVING TO REST SO I
CAN JUST COMPLETE ANOTHER WORK
DAY.
WHEN THIS ALL STARTED I DID NOT
HAVE INSURANCE AT THE TIME I
RECEIVED A LOT OF BACKLASH FROM
MY EMPLOYER ABOUT HAVING A
CHAIR NEXT TO ME AND SITTING
DURING THE WORKDAY.
THEY CLAIM THAT I WOULD NEED A
NOTE FROM A DOCTOR FOR
ACCOMMODATIONS OR BEING CLAIMED
AS DISABLED TO HAVE THIS CHAIR
.
>> I THOUGHT THIS WAS
ABSOLUTELY ABSURD ABSURD AS I
WAS NOT GOING TO PAY OUT
OF POCKET JUST FOR A DOCTOR TO
TELL MY EMPLOYEE THAT I CAN
TAKE A SEAT AND HAVE A REST
DURING THE DAY AFTER A FEW
MONTHS OF GOING BACK AND FORTH
WITH MY EMPLOYEE OR EMPLOYER
ABOUT A SIMPLE CHAIR, I WAS
ABLE TO PROVE THAT SITTING IN A
CHAIR DID NOT INHIBITED MY JOB
AT ALL.
I WAS MAKING OR EXCEEDING EVERY
GOAL THEY SET OUT FOR ME
WHETHER IT WAS IN THE CHAIR OR
STANDING ON MY FEET ALL DAY
BEING COMFORTABLE
AT WORK
SHOULD NOT BE DEEMED AS
LAZINESS AND SHOULD BE
CONSIDERED FOR THE MARYLAND
PRODUCTS BODY FOR OUR EMPLOYEES
IT IS LITERALLY SAVED MY CAREER
AND I HOPE YOU GUYS TAKE THE
TIME AND REALLY UNDERSTAND THE
BILL THAT'S ABOUT TO COME UP.
WE APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER JESSICA RILEY
.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS JESSICA RILEY.
I AM A SOCIAL WORK STUDENT AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
A FORMER RESTAURANT EMPLOYEE.
THERE ARE SEVEN POINTS I'D LIKE
TO MAKE TODAY SUPPORTING THE
RIGHT TO SET ORDINANCE AND
ASSOCIATED RESOLUTION FIRST.
THIS IS A LABOR RIGHTS ISSUE
BECAUSE IT RELATES TO THE
SAFETY, THE WORKPLACE AND
HEALTH OF THE WORKER.
ACCORDING TO THE CDC, THERE'S
AMPLE EVIDENCE THAT PROLONGED
STANDING IN THE WORKPLACE LEADS
TO A NUMBER OF NEGATIVE HEALTH
OUTCOMES.
THIS INCLUDES LOW BACK PAIN,
PHYSICAL FATIGUE, MUSCLE PAIN,
LEG SWELLING, TIREDNESS, BODY
PART DISCOMFORT AND EVEN
CARDIOVASCULAR PROBLEMS AND
ADVERSE PREGNANCY OUTCOMES.
I WORK AS A CASHIER AT A CHAIN
RESTAURANT AND BEING DENIED THE
RIGHT TO SIT WHEN THERE WAS NO
NEED FOR ME TO STAND.
I REMEMBER THAT IN ORDER TO
MAKE IT THROUGH THE EIGHT HOUR
SHIFTS I WOULD STRETCH ALL MY
WORK BREAKS, MY LUNCH BREAKS
AND GO TO THE BATHROOM JUST FOR
THE PERIODIC TIME WHERE I GOT
TO SIT DOWN.
THE CDC CONCLUDES THE ABILITY
FOR WORKERS TO HAVE MOVEMENT
DURING WORK SUCH AS BEING ABLE
TO EASILY SHIFT FROM STANDING
SITTING SEEM TO BE A COMMON
SUGGESTION AND NEARLY ALL
OF THE LITERATURE ON THIS TOPIC
MY SECOND POINT IS THAT THIS IS
ALSO A HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUE
CONCERNED WITH DIGNITY,
FAIRNESS AND RESPECT.
NOT ALL PEOPLE WHO NEED TO SIT
PERIODICALLY HAVE A LEGALLY
QUALIFYING DISABILITY AND THIS
ORDINANCE CHANGE WOULD ENSURE
THAT ALL EMPLOYEES ARE TREATED
FAIRLY AND PROVIDED WHAT THEY
NEED.
IT IS UNDIGNIFIED TO BE FORCED
TO STAND WHEN SITTING DOESN'T
INTERFERE WITH JOB DUTIES, A
JAKOBSSON ARTICLE ASSERTS IT'S
POINTLESS AND MEAN SPIRITED.
THEYESERVE THE RIGHT TO SIT
DOWN.
MY THIRD POINT IS THAT WORKERS
ARE MORE PRODUCTIVE.
THEY HAVE THE RIGHT TO SIT
ESPECIALLY BECAUSE THIS
ORDINANCE DOESN'T ALLOW FOR
INTERFERENCE WITH JOB DUTIES.
A 2016 STUDY FROM RESEARCHERS
AT TEXAS A&M FOUND PRODUCTIVITY
INCREASES WHEN PEOPLE HAVE THE
ABILITY TO SIT AND STAND
THROUGHOUT THE WORKDAY AND MY
FOOD SERVICE JOB I WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR MONITORING THE
FRONT OF THE HOUSE TO ENSURE
THAT I DIDN'T MISS A CUSTOMER
COMING IN AND THERE WAS PLENTY
OF ROOM AT MY STATION FOR A
STOOL OR A SMALL CHAIR AND IF I
DID HAVE THE RIGHT TO SAY IT IS
UNLIKELY THAT I WOULD HAVE BEEN
IN THE BACK OF THE HOUSE OR
RESIDING IN AN AREA THAT I
COULDN'T SEE THE DINING ROOM
BECAUSE IT WAS PART OF MY JOB
DUTIES TO MONITOR THAT SPACE.
THIS IS ALSO TRUE FOR MOST
FRONT OF HOUSE RESTAURANT
POSITIONS SUCH AS A HOSTESS
WEARING A SIMPLE STOOL WOULD
PROVIDE MUCH NEEDED RELIEF AND
MY FINAL POINT THAT THERE HAS
BEEN LITTLE EVIDENCE
OF EMPLOYER COMPLAINTS ABOUT
ENFORCING THIS.
SO IN CITIES OR LOCALITIES THAT
A PASTOR PROPOSED THE RIGHT TO
SET LAWS, THERE HAVE BEEN
LIMITED REPORTS OF SERVICE
INDUSTRY EMPLOYERS MOUNTING
LEGAL CHALLENGES OR RAISING
SUBSTANTIAL COMPLAINTS IN
CALIFORNIA WHERE THE STATE
LABOR CODE INCLUDES SEATING
REQUIREMENTS, SERVICE INDUSTRY
RESISTANCE HAS BEEN RELATIVELY
ACROSS THE BOARD.
MOST COMPLAINTS THAT HAVE
ARISEN TEND TO FOCUS ON BROADER
LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT CONCERNS
LIKE WAGES, BENEFITS, WORKING
CONDITIONS RATHER THAN SEATING
REQUIREMENTS SPECIFICALLY.
SO IF THIS WERE TO PASS I HOPE
TO EXPECT A LITTLE PUSH BACK
BUT MAJOR IMPACT ON THE PEOPLE
OF THE CITY.
I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
HAVE MY SUPPORT AND FOR THIS
IMPORTANT ORDINANCE DOCUMENTED
AND I WELCOME ANY QUESTIONS IN
THE COUNCIL ALREADY.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT QUESTION IS THE HEAT
.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS CITY HEAT
AND I'M HERE TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF THE RIGHT TO SIT ORDINANCE.
I WAS BORN IN ANN ARBOR AND
I'VE LIVED HERE MOST OF MY
LIFE.
I GREW UP IN A WORKING CLASS
FAMILY AND AS A RESULT HIGHER
EDUCATION INITIALLY SEEMED OUT
OF REACH.
SO AS A YOUNG ADULT I TURNED TO
HOSPITALITY AND WORKED IN
MULTIPLE LOCAL HOTELS AND
RESTAURANTS.
I WAS GOOD AT EVERY JOB I HELD
AND GOT PROMOTED MULTIPLE TIMES
BUT I WAS CONSTANTLY IN PAIN.
I WAS DIAGNOSED WITH SCOLIOSIS
AS A YOUNG CHILD AND OVER THE
COURSE OF MY LIFE IT WORSENED
TO 90 DEGREES.
I'VE DEALT WITH CHRONIC PAIN
SINCE MIDDLE SCHOOL LATER ON I
ALSO DEVELOPED PARTS OR
POSTURAL ORTHOSTATIC
TACHYCARDIA SYNDROME WHICH
MEANS THAT STANDING FOR LONG
LONG PERIODS CAN MAKE ME OUT
OF BREATH NAUSEOUS, DIZZY,
FATIGUED AND EVEN AFFECT MY
WORKING MEMORY.
NONETHELESS, AT A CERTAIN POINT
YOU NEED MONEY TO LIVE.
SO I KEPT WORKING BUT I ALMOST
NEVER DISCLOSED MY DIAGNOSES
ESPECIALLY BEFORE I HAD A
CHANCE TO PROVE THAT I COULD DO
THE JOB AND IT WOULD APPEAR MY
INSTINCTS WERE CORRECT, THE
HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW STATES.
UNFORTUNATELY, RESEARCH
INDICATES IT'S NOT RARE FOR A
DISABILITY DISCLOSURE TO LEAD
TO ACCUSATIONS FAKING AND OTHER
NEGATIVE ATTITUDES BOTH
CONSCIOUS AND UNCONSCIOUS
ADDITION TO THE JOB OF JOB
ACCOMMODATION, NETWORK SAYS
ACCORDING THE EEOC, AN EMPLOYER
DOES NOT HAVE TO RESCIND
DISCIPLINE OR AN EVALUATION ARE
WARRANTED BY POOR PERFORMANCE
SIMPLY BECAUSE AN EMPLOYEE HAS
DISCLOSED A DISABILITY OR
REQUESTED ACCOMMODATION.
IT WAS ALSO MADE CLEAR TO ME
THAT MAKING ALLOWANCES FOR MY
BODY WAS NOT OK ONCE WHEN I WAS
WORKING AT A LOCAL HOTEL I WAS
TOLD THAT I WAS NEVER TO SIT
DOWN AND VIEW A GUEST BUT THAT
I ALSO WAS NOT ALLOWED TO LEAVE
THE DESK UNATTENDED AT A
RESTAURANT I WAS CALLED OUT FOR
EVEN LEANING ON THE COUNTER
BEING ON YOUR FEET THAT MUCH
ISN'T GOOD FOR ANYBODY AND IT
ESPECIALLY WASN'T GOOD FOR ME.
I EVENTUALLY HAD TO LEAVE THE
INDUSTRY AND MY PAIN WORSENED
TO THE POINT WHERE I HAD TO
HAVE MAJOR SPINAL SURGERY WHICH
ALSO RESULTED IN LIFE
THREATENING SURGICAL
COMPLICATIONS.
TURNS OUT BEING ON MY FEET SO
MUCH PROBABLY WASN'T GOOD FOR
ME BUT HONESTLY IT ISN'T GOOD
FOR ANYBODY.
THIS LEGISLATION IS ABSOLUTELY
AN ISSUE OF DISABILITY.
JUSTICE AND DISABILITY CAN
IMPACT ANY PERSON AT ANY POINT
IN THEIR LIFE TEMPORARILY OR
PERMANENTLY WHETHER OR NOT IT
IS RECOGNIZED BY THE LAW.
IT IS ALSO AN ISSUE OF ECONOMIC
JUSTICE BECAUSE THOSE WHO DO
THESE KINDS OF JOBS ARE THOSE
WHO NEED THEM LIKE ME.
BUT IT'S MORE THAN THAT THIS
LEGISLATION IS A HUMAN RIGHTS
ISSUE BECAUSE IT ENSURES THAT
PEOPLE HAVE THE RIGHT TO TAKE
CARE OF THEIR BODIES AND ARE
NOT FORCED TO SACRIFICE THEIR
HEALTH TO LONG TERM WEAR AND
TEAR BASED ON THE PREFERENCES
OF THEIR EMPLOYER.
IT ENSURES THAT WE MAINTAIN
OWNERSHIP OF OUR BODIES AND
THEIR LONG TERM HEALTH AND THAT
OUR EMPLOYERS CANNOT MAKE THOSE
DECISIONS FOR US ANYTHING LESS
THAN THE RIGHT TO REST OUR
BODIES WHEN THEY NEED IT IS AN
AFFRONT TO BODILY AUTONOMY AND
HUMAN RIGHTS.
I'M REALLY GRATEFUL FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK TODAY AND
I SINCERELY HOPE FOR A MORE
ACCESSIBLE WORKPLACE IN THE
TOWN WHERE I GREW UP.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS IAN
ROBINSON
.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR.
COUNCIL MEMBERS MY NAME IAN
ROBINSON.
I'M A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR.
I'M ALSO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
AREA LABOR FEDERATION HERE ON
VALLEY AREA LABOR FEDERATION
AND AS AN ORGANIZATION THAT
REPRESENTS WORKERS AND WORKERS
RIGHTS AND INTERESTS, WE HAVE
AN INTEREST IN THE RIGHT TO SIT
MODIFICATION TO THE ORDINANCE
THAT'S BEING PROPOSED.
I WILL SAY THAT WE HAVE NOT HAD
EXTENSIVE DISCUSSIONS THIS IT'S
A RELATIVELY NEW ISSUE TO US
BUT YOU HEARD ELOQUENT
TESTIMONY ALREADY FROM WORKERS
FOR WHOM THIS WOULD MAKE A HUGE
DIFFERENCE AND WE TAKE THAT
KIND OF TESTIMONY VERY
SERIOUSLY.
I'LL ALSO SAY THAT EVEN THOUGH
WE ARE BEGINNING OUR PROCESS
OF THINKING AND LEARNING ABOUT
THIS, WE DO START FROM CERTAIN
PREMISES THAT WE'VE THAT OUR
HISTORY AND OUR EXPERIENCE HAS
SHOWN TO BE GENERALLY TRUE.
NOW ONE OF THOSE IS THAT
WORKERS SHOULDN'T BE DENIED
WORK THAT THEY CAN PERFORM
BECAUSE THERE ARE ARBITRARY
RESTRICTIONS ON WHAT CAN ON
PROCESSES THAT COULD EASILY BE
CHANGED.
AND THIS HAS HAPPENED OVER THE
YEARS IN MANY WAYS AND WHEN
THEY WERE REMOVED THEY
BENEFITED THE WORKERS.
THEY OFTEN BENEFITED THE
EMPLOYER TOO.
BUT THERE NEEDED TO BE SOME
PUSH FOR THAT TO HAPPEN.
IT'S ALSO TRUE THAT IN A TIME
OF LABOR SHORTAGE WHICH I THINK
MANY OF OUR INDUSTRIES HERE IN
ANN ARBOR FACED OPENING UP THE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR PEOPLE WHO
MIGHT OTHERWISE BE EXCLUDED.
IT IS A GOOD THING IT'S IN THE
PUBLIC INTEREST AS WELL AS THE
INDIVIDUAL WORKERS INTEREST AND
OF COURSE IT INCREASES THE POOL
AVAILABLE TO EMPLOYERS.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE A WIN WIN WIN
TO ELIMINATE BARRIERS THAT ARE
NOT IN FACT ESSENTIAL TO THE
WORK RELATED TO THE ESSENTIAL
DUTIES.
IT'S OUR UNDERSTANDING THAT
THIS ORDINANCE THAT'S BEING
PROPOSED WOULD NOT IN FACT
OVERRIDE THE NEED TO BE ABLE TO
PERFORM ESSENTIAL DUTIES.
IN OTHER WORDS, IT WOULDN'T
FORCE EMPLOYERS TO TAKE ON
SOMEONE WHO COULDN'T DO THE
THINGS THAT REALLY NEEDED TO BE
DONE FOR THAT JOB.
SO WE'RE NOT ACTUALLY FACING
THAT KIND OF A PROBLEM.
AND FOURTH, WE KNOW THERE'S A
LONG HISTORY IN AMERICA I'M
SURE IN OTHER COUNTRIES AS WELL
OF LABOR STANDARDS WHEN THEY'RE
FIRST INTRODUCED BEING
VIGOROUSLY PROTESTED BY
EMPLOYERS WHO WERE NOT
INTERESTED IN CHANGING THE WAY
THEY DO BUSINESS AND YET OVER
TIME HAVE PROVEN TO NOT BE
DETRIMENTAL TO THEIR BUSINESS
OR EVEN BENEFICIAL.
YOU KNOW, IT'S THERE'S OFTEN
OVERREACTION OUT OF FEAR OF THE
NEW AND THE NOVEL WHEN NEW
LABOR STANDARDS ARE INTRODUCED.
SO I THINK WE LOOK FORWARD TO
BEING PART OF AN ONGOING
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHAT THESE
KINDS OF REFORMS WOULD MEAN TO
BEING AT THE TABLE AS THAT
DISCUSSION UNFOLDS TO HEARING
FROM EMPLOYERS THAT HAVE
CONCERNS TO HEARING FROM
EMPLOYEES FOR WHOM THIS WOULD
MAKE A POSITIVE DIFFERENCE AND
ALSO FROM RESEARCHERS WHO'VE
LOOKED AT WHAT THESE KINDS
OF ORDINANCES MEAN IN OTHER
PLACES WHERE THEY'VE BEEN
INTRODUCED.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BETH.
>> HI.
MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS BETH AND I'M THE
CHAIR OF THE ANN ARBOR CHAPTER
OF GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
AT THE GREATER METROPOLITAN
ASSOCIATION
OF REALTORS
SPEAKING ABOUT THE ORDINANCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER ONE TO OF THE
HOME ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE
OF TITLE EIGHT WHILE WE HAVE
VOICED OUR OPPOSITION THIS
ORDINANCE IN THE PAST SINCE ITS
PASSAGE WE'VE TRIED TO WORK AS
CITY OFFICIALS TO ENSURE
IMPLEMENTATION GOES AS SMOOTHLY
AS POSSIBLE AND BY BY
INTRODUCING THESE PROPOSED
CHANGES WE FEEL LIKE IT'S
ACTUALLY CREATING SOME NEW
PROBLEMS AND DOESN'T SOLVE THE
ONES THAT THAT ARE THERE.
SO HERE ARE A COUPLE
OF EXAMPLES IN SECTION EIGHT
THREE NINETY FIVE ONE IT'S
ATTEMPTING TO CLARIFY DWELLING
THAT DO NOT REQUIRE THE
DISCLOSURE.
SO WE'VE SEEN MULTIPLE ISSUES
RELATED TO WHAT TYPES
OF BUILDINGS WE REQUIRE THE
DISCLOSURE AND THE MOST COMMON
ISSUE WE'VE SEEN IS THAT A
CONDO IS EXEMPT FROM THE RULE.
BUT YET AGENTS AND SELLERS HAVE
RECEIVED NOTIFICATION
THREATENING THEM THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO BE FINED ANYWAY.
SO THAT'S ONE OF THE ISSUES SO
AND THE LET'S SEE I'M GOING TO
REFER TO ASHLEY BU'S
CONDOMINIUM AS AN EXAMPLE
OF WHERE THE SITUATION IS
UNCLEAR.
THIS PROJECT CONSISTENCE
MULTIPLE UNIT TYPES IN SOME
CASES THOSE UNITS OR TOWNHOME
STYLE ONLY TO A JOIN OTHER
UNITS LATERALLY AND THEN IN
OTHER CASES THE UNITS ARE
STACKED AND BOTH UNIT TYPES CAN
BE FOUND WITHIN A CONTIGUOUS
STRUCTURE THAT WOULD CONSTITUTE
ONE BUILDING THE SALE
OF TOWNHOME WOULD THEREFORE BE
THE SALE OF A SINGLE UNIT IN A
BUILDING WHERE MULTIPLE
DWELLING UNITS ARE STACKED
VERTICALLY SO IN OUR OPINION
THIS NEW LANGUAGE IT'S JUST NOT
CLEARED UP WELL ENOUGH AND THEN
ONE MORE JUST ONE MORE ISSUE IS
IN SECTION EIGHT THREE NINETY
SIX ONE B TWO WHICH REQUIRES
SELLERS TO PROVIDE A COPY
OF THE HOME ENERGY SCORE REPORT
TO ALL PROSPECTIVE BUYERS WHO
VISIT THE DWELLING.
THAT'S THE PROPOSED CHANGE
OF THE WORDING AND I THINK LIKE
IF YOU GUYS HAVE ALL SOLD A
HOUSE BEFORE, USUALLY YOU HAVE
A REALTOR INVOLVED AND YOU'RE
NOT EVEN SUPPOSED TO BE AT THE
HOUSE.
BUT THIS ORDINANCE IS SAYING
THAT THE SELLER IS RESPONSIBLE
FOR PROVIDING THIS TO PEOPLE
WHO VISIT THE HOUSE.
IT'S JUST IT DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE.
SO WHAT WE WOULD REALLY HOPE IS
I DON'T KNOW I KNOW WHERE IT IS
ON YOUR AGENDA TONIGHT IS TO
ACTUALLY TO VOTE ON IT OR IF
IT'S JUST DISCUSSION OR WHAT.
BUT WE WOULD HOPE THAT WE WOULD
HAVE MORE OPPORTUNITY AS AN
ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS AND AND
INDUSTRY PEOPLE TO GIVE MORE
INPUT ON HOW TO CLEAR UP SOME
OF THESE ISSUES SO THAT IT'S
IT'S JUST IT BECOMES MORE
HELPFUL.
SO THAT'S OUR HOPE.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ZACH
DAMAN.
THAT WAS ME BETH PAYNE.
THAT WAS THE PERFECT THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ZACH DAMAN
ZACH DAMON IS JOINING US ON
ZUN.
YOU GO AHEAD.
I THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING, MR. MAYOR.
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL I DO
APOLOGIZE THAT I'M NOT THERE IN
PERSON BUT I ASSURE YOU I AM
VERY, VERY DO ALL THE REMARKS
PRIOR TO THIS MARCAL MISS RILEY
IF AND MR. ROBINSON I PRESUME
TO SPEAK ON THE RIGHT TO BE ONE
DASH FOR WHICH IS THE
RESOLUTION FOR THE RIGHT TO DO
.
I AM THE CURRENT CHAIRMAN
OF THE COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES BUT I SPEAK WITH YOU
THIS EVENING AS THAT.
BUT ALSO AS A RESIDENT THIS
RESOLUTION IS A CRUCIAL STEP
FOR PROMOTING A HEALTHIER WORK
ENVIRONMENT BY ALLOWING
EMPLOYEES TO SIT WHEN THEIR JOB
DUTIES DO PERMIT.
IT IS NOT JUST FOR THESE WEEKLY
RECOGNIZED DISABILITIES TO GO
ON.
WORKERS NEED TO BE GIVEN THE
RIGHT TO SIT BUT THIS ALSO
NEEDS TO BE MET FOR WORKERS WHO
DO NOT MEET THE THRESHOLD FOR
LEGAL DISABILITY AS THESE
OF PHYSICAL CHALLENGES AND FEES
FOR HEALTH CARE CAN
ASTRONOMICAL AS OTHERS HAVE
SAID AND PROLONGED STANDING CAN
BE DETRIMENTAL TO THEIR LONG
TERM HEALTH AS WELL AS THEIR
CURRENT WORK PERFORMANCE AND
WORK CONDITIONS.
LIKE OTHERS HAVE MENTIONED,
BACK PAIN, ARTHRITIS AND OTHER
HEALTH CONDITIONS CAN BE
DETRIMENTAL AND MANY WORKERS
ALSO LACK THE ACCESS AGAIN TO
HEALTH CARE AND THE
DOCUMENTATION NEEDED TO
FORMALLY REQUEST ACCOMMODATION.
AND MANY CAN GET DENIED.
THIS INITIATIVE ENSURES THAT
ALL EMPLOYEES REGARDLESS
OF THEIR ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE
OR FORMER DIAGNOSIS CAN PROTECT
THEIR HEALTH AND THEIR
WELL-BEING WHILE ON THE JOB JOB
PROTECTING THEIR EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
THIS RESOLUTION IS ABOUT
PREVENTING FUTURE HARM EVEN FOR
ABLE BODIED WORKERS FOR LONG
STANDING AND MEET THE SERIOUS
HEALTH ISSUES OVER TIME.
FOR EXAMPLE, I MYSELF WORK AT A
LOCAL BUSINESS HERE IN ANN
ARBOR.
I HAD TO STAND FOR PROLONGED
PERIODS OF TIME AND I WAS
REPROMED AND LEANING AGAINST
SOMETHING BECAUSE THAT WAS
DEEMED UNPROFESSIONAL BY
GRAZING WORKERS.
THE RIGHT TO STEP WHEN FEASIBLE
IN ARBER IS PROMOTING LONG TERM
WELL-BEING AND CREATING A MORE
EQUITABLE WORKPLACE.
THIS RESOLUTION IN MY OPINION
MARCH 26TH IS TODAY SIGNIFICANT
MOVE TOWARD A HEALTHIER, MORE
INTENSIVE WORK ENVIRONMENT FOR
THE CITY ENSURING THAT ALL
EMPLOYEES CAN WORK IN CONDITION
THIRTY SECONDS THEIR WELL-BEING
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND I
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LOWE
.
>> ALEX LOWE IS JOINING US ON
ZOOME.
GO AHEAD.
HI, THIS IS ALEX CALLING IN
FROM NASED NEIGHBOR FIRST I'D
LIKE TO EXTEND UNHESITATING
COMMENTS I GUESS FROM CHIPPING
IN AND TO LET THEM KNOW THAT
DESPITE ALL THE JOKES THEY MAY
HAVE ABOUT OTHER IT WOULD BE AN
ACCIDENT DREAM FOR MANY OF US
HERE IN ANN ARBOR TO HAVE
SERVICE ANYWHERE NEAR CHIPPING
UP TO CITY COUNCIL.
I APOLOGIZE THAT I MISSPOKE
CLERK'S OFFICE I NEED TO SPEAK
UNSERE FIVE NAZIA THREE.
THIS IS A GOOD STEP FORWARD BUT
IT'S NOT ENOUGH.
THE BIKE LANE AND PATH SHOULD
NOT BE BETWEEN THE PARKING LANE
AND THE DRIVING THERE.
IT SHOULD BE BETWEEN THE
PARKING CURVE.
THIS ALLOWS FOR PROTECTION
BETWEEN THE BIKE AND THE
PARKING PROTECTING BOTH
BICYCLISTS RIDING EASTBOUND ON
HGNI AND PASSENGERS EXITING
THEIR VEHICLES ALONG THIS
PARKING THEY'RE MAKING AND
MAKING IT ACTUALLY AN ALL AGES
AND ABILITIES PAY PLAN WHICH
THE PROPOSAL WOULD NOT BE
RELATED TO SEATTLE AND I THINK
IT'S GREAT THAT THE CITY IS
TAKING OVER THE SIDEWALK
PLACEMENT BUT PLEASE TELL ME
WHY DESPITE NO HAVING HAPPENED
AT 21 11 PACKARD FOR SUCH A
LONG TIME, THE SIDEWALKS
BLOCKED OFF JUST SEEMS LIKE
BLOCKING OFF HIGHWAYS AND
SIDEWALKS.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT WE LET GET
DEVELOPERS GET AWAY WITH IN
WAYS THAT WE WOULDN'T LET THEM
GET AWAY WITH BLOCKING TRAFFIC
.
>> SO IT'S IRONIC THAT DESPITE
OUR H0 GOALS, TRAFFIC SAFETY
GOALS ETC. WE SO REGULARLY MAKE
IT HARDER FOR PEOPLE TO WALK
AND BIKE AT AND ARBOR FOR FOR A
MILE PER MILE CONVENIENCE FOR
DRIVERS IF THEY CONTINUE TO
HAVE THE SIDEWALK BLOCKED OFF.
WHAT WE NEED IS IS TO MAKE THAT
SMALL SECTION OF A PACKAGE TWO
LANES BUT IT'S JERSEY BARRIERS
AND ALLOW CYCLISTS AND
PEDESTRIANS TO SHARE THE SPACE
BETWEEN THE JUDGE AND THE
FINALLY C THREE AS SOMEONE WHO
IS CURRENTLY IN THE PROCESS
OF SELLING HIS HOUSE, I
ACTUALLY THINK THAT CLOSING
THESE LOOPHOLES IS A GREAT
THING.
SO KEEP IT UP.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LATEESHA
HAURI
.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR.
COUNCIL MEMBERS, THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR ALLOWING ME TO BE HERE
.
I AM A MASTER OF SOCIAL WORK
STUDENT ALSO AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
I HAVE THE PLEASURE OF WORKING
WITH OUR WASHTENAW INTERMEDIATE
SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIFICALLY ON
THE BRIDGE TEAM THAT IS
DIRECTED BY MR. SHAGARI.
AS YOU MAY KNOW, THE WASC
SUPPORTS OF ALL NINE DISTRICTS
WITHIN THE COUNTY.
RIGHT.
THAT'S A LARGE FEAT FOR ANY
DISTRICT.
WE KNOW THERE ARE SOME BIGGER
AND SMALLER BUT THE BRIDGE IS A
SPECIAL PROGRAM THAT PROVIDES
MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT TO ALL
STUDENTS WITHIN ALL THE
GENERATIONS.
STUDENTS FROM KINDERGARTEN
THROUGH 12TH GRADE.
WE KNOW THAT OUR STUDENTS
DESERVE THE BEST OPPORTUNITY
FOR MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT AND
ALL THAT WHICH IS THERE.
JUST MAKE SURE YOU DON'T PLEASE
NOTE THAT THE BRIDGE TEAM IS
COMPRISED OF LICENSED CLINICAL
SOCIAL WORKERS ALL TRAINED
SCHOOL DORST TO BE ABLE TO
PROVIDE THIS THE BENEFITS THAT
THEY OFFER INCLUDE COUNSELING
AND COORDINATION, INTERVENTION
STRATEGIES IN ORDER TO SUPPORT
OUR STUDENTS THAT CAN BE
OFFERED IN BOTH INDIVIDUAL AND
GROUP SESSIONS INSIDE THE
SCHOOL.
BUT WE'RE REALLY PUSHING INSIDE
SCHOOLS TO PROVIDE SUPPORT TO
OUR STUDENT BODY.
IN ADDITION TO THAT THEY WORK
WITH AND COLLABORATE UTILIZE
WRAPAROUND TECHNIQUES WHICH
MEANS WE INCLUDE THE FAMILIES
OF SCHOOLS, OUR TEACHERS, OUR
COMMUNITY PARTNERS TO CREATE
INDIVIDUALIZED
PLANS FOR OUR
STUDENTS.
THE BRIDGE TEAM ALSO SUPPORTS
STUDENTS IN CRISIS.
WE ALL UNDERSTAND WHAT CRISIS
CAN MEAN AND HOW FAR THAT CAN
BE AND THE BRIDGE TEAM STEPS IN
IN ADDITION TO OUR COMMUNITY
PARTNERS TO BE ABLE TO HELP OUR
STUDENTS TO BE ABLE TO MEET ALL
THE GOALS THAT THEY HAVE.
PLEASE NOTE THAT IN ADDITION TO
THIS WE KNOW THAT THE BRIDGE
TEAM THEY HAVE DIRECT POSITIVE
INFLUENCE ON ACADEMIC SUCCESS
IN AND OUT OF THE CLASSROOM,
IMPROVING PERFORMANCE,
DECREASING ANXIETY AND
DEPRESSION, PROVIDING STUDENTS
AND OUR SCHOOL FAMILIES WITH
ADDITIONAL SUPPORT TO HELP THEM
ACHIEVE THEIR EDUCATIONAL
GOALS.
SO YOU MAY WONDER HOW A STUDENT
PARTICIPATES THE BRIDGE PROGRAM
IT ALL STARTS WITH REFERRALS
FROM THOSE WHO ARE CLOSEST TO
OUR STUDENTS, OUR TEACHERS, OUR
COUNSELORS, OUR COMMUNITY
LEADERS, INDIVIDUALS LIKE
YOURSELVES, COACHES, FRIENDS,
CHURCH MEMBERS.
I'VE PROVIDED EACH OF YOU WITH
A FIRE IN FRONT OF YOU.
THIS IS OUR ONE PAGE HANDOUT
THAT WE PROVIDE AND WE SHARE TO
THE COMMUNITY AT THE BOTTOM
RIGHT OF THAT FIRE THERE'S A QR
CODE IF YOU WANT TO TAKE YOUR
PHONE AND SCAN THE QR CODE , IT
TAKES YOU RIGHT TO THE
REFERRAL.
IT IS A VERY SIMPLE PROCESS.
YOU COMPLETE THE REFERRAL.
THAT REFERRAL COMES INTO OUR
BRIDGE AND IS IN PROCESS.
WE THEN GAIN CONSENT FROM OUR
PARENTS.
WE ESTABLISH A CARE PLAN IF
THEY'RE ELIGIBLE AND THERAPY
BEGINS.
THE MORE OUR STUDENTS ARE
SUPPORTED THE MORE THEY'RE ABLE
TO OVERCOME THE CHALLENGES THAT
THEY FACE IN CLASSROOM AND IN
LIFE.
>> PLEASE HELP US TO SHARE THE
WORD THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
I ALWAYS ENJOY COMING TO
COUNSEL BECAUSE IT'S SUCH A
POSITIVE ENVIRONMENT NOT
NECESSARILY NECESSARILY A
REALISTIC ENVIRONMENT BUT
DEFINITELY POSITIVE AND I ENJOY
LISTENING TO THE OTHER SPEAKERS
AND I LEARNED SO MUCH ABOUT THE
BRIDGE PROGRAM.
SO THANK YOU AND ALEX LOWE
TALKING SIDEWALKS LAST WEEK I
WAS IN SEATTLE VISITING MY
GRANDSON BUT HE DOES TAKE NAPS
SO I WAS ABLE TO GO OUT AND
STUDY A PEDESTRIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE AND I WOULD SAY
SEATTLE IS TRULY A PROGRESSIVE
CITY WHEREAS WHEN YOU LOOK AT
OUR PEDESTRIAN INFRASTRUCTURE
WE'RE MORE OF A CORPORATE CITY
.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT OUR SIDEWALKS
FREQUENTLY THEY'RE CLOSED OFF.
IF YOU WANT TO BUILD IN ANN
ARBOR, JUST TELL US HOW MANY
LANES YOU NEED AND WE'LL GIVE
THEM TO YOU AS WELL AS A
SIDEWALK IN THE BIKE LANE AND
WHATEVER.
SO ANYWAY IN SEATTLE THEY
DEFINE VISION'S AS IT'S NOT
JUST OUR PLAN TO END TRAFFIC
DEATHS AND SERIOUS INJURIES ON
CITY STREETS BY TWENTY THIRTY
IT IS A CULTURE OF CARE AND
DIGNITY FOR EVERYONE WHO USES
SEATTLE STREETS.
SO IT'S NOT THE CYCLISTS VERSUS
THE DRIVERS VERSUS WHOEVER.
SO I REALLY ENJOYED WALKING
AROUND SEATTLE AND SEATTLE HAS
A STREET IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
THAT WAS ACTUALLY DESCRIBED TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AT
LEAST SIX MONTHS AGO AND I HOPE
THAT WE TAKE A LOOK AT IT AGAIN
AND THEN I'M NOT REALLY GOING
TO TALK ABOUT MYSELF SO MUCH
NOW BUT WHAT OTHER PEOPLE ARE
SAYING OUT ON THE INTERNET AND
MY TOPIC THAT I REQUESTED WAS
CLEANSED A BIT BUT IT WAS
INCREASING CRASHES, INCREASING
DOLLARS SPENT AND INCREASING
INCRIMINATING INFORMATION ON
SOCIAL MEDIA.
SO WE KNOW THAT TWENTY TWENTY
THREE WAS A YEAR WORSE YEAR FOR
PEDESTRIAN CRASHES SINCE TWENTY
FOURTEEN.
SO WHAT IS CITY COUNCIL DONE.
NOT DISCUSSED IT GOOD IDEA.
OK BUT OTHER PEOPLE ARE CRASHES
AND AABERG I SUGGEST YOU GO
THERE AND THERE'S INFORMATION
ABOUT THE CRASH THE SCOOTER
CRASH ON HILL AND PACKARD THE
SCOOTER DRIVER RAN A RED LIGHT.
WHY?
BECAUSE THE PEDESTRIAN RAN
SIGNAL SAID WALK.
IT'S CLEARLY IDENTIFIED BY AN
ENGINEER.
THIS IS THE MOST INCRIMINATING
INFORMATION I HAVE SEEN YET IT
IS TOTALLY INEXCUSABLE.
IT NEEDS TO BE CORRECTED
TOMORROW AND WHAT CAN WE DO?
WE CAN PUT GRATES OVER OUR
PEDESTRIANS JUST LIKE SEATTLE
DOES.
SO IF YOU WANT TO LOOK AT ME
YOU CAN ONLY SEE ME WHEN YOU'RE
LOOKING STRAIGHT AT ME.
>> SAME THING WITH THE
PEDESTRIAN SIGNAL.
MY TIME IS ALMOST UP.
I JUST WANT TO SAY I PUT A
TICKET IN AND I WAS TOLD IT WAS
NOT PART OF OUR FIVE YEAR PLAN
SO THEY WEREN'T GOING TO DO
ANYTHING ABOUT IT.
THAT SOUNDS COMMUNISM NOT A
PROGRESSIVE CITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK ARE THEIR COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM COUNCIL
COUNCIL
MEMBER JEWISH.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR AND I
JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT WELCOME
TO OUR DELEGATION FROM OUR
SISTER CITY UNION AND I WANTED
TO SAY AS I SAID A FEW WEEKS
AGO THAT ON WEDNESDAY EVENING
FROM SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY P.M.
LORD MAYOR PALMER WILL BE
TELLING US WHAT WE CAN LEARN
FROM OUR SISTER CITY ABOUT WELL
,I DON'T MEAN TO SAY THAT AS
IF BUT YOU'RE GOING TO SHARE
WITH US THE WONDERFUL THINGS
THAT ARE GOING THERE TO
EQUITABLY ADDRESS THE CLIMATE
CRISIS AND HOW THAT CAN HELP
SHAPE OUR WAY TO ZERO
INITIATIVE AND THEN ALSO THIS
FRIDAY IS COMING UP THE EIGHT
TWO ZERO GREEN FAIR ON MAIN
STREET AND WE WILL BE TAKING
YOU ALL THERE AND EVERYONE IN
THE COMMUNITY OF COURSE IS
INVITED AND YOU CAN SAMPLE LOTS
OF DIFFERENT THINGS YOU CAN I
THINK YOU MIGHT BE ABLE TO
SAMPLE ANN ARBOR WATER
SOMETIMES THAT HAPPENS BUT
THERE'S ALSO VEGAN FOOD AND
MANY REALLY FUN THINGS AND
GAMES TO PLAY AND IT'S JUST A
GREAT TIME AND THE WEATHER'S
PERFECT UNLESS IT ABRUPTLY
CHANGES WHICH IN MICHIGAN IT
NEVER DOES.
>> SO WE'LL SEE THERE THERE
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I TOO WOULD LIKE TO FORMALLY
EXTEND OUR WELCOME TO OUR OUR
VISITORS FROM TUEBINGEN
OBVIOUSLY SEVERAL OF US GOT THE
CHANCE TO CHAT WITH YOU EARLIER
BUT IT IS WONDERFUL TO HAVE
HERE IN OUR COUNCIL CHAMBERS
AND BACK IN ANN ARBOR.
SO THANK YOU.
ADDING ON TO OUR COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DISH ACTUALLY JUST SHARED
EARLIER WHEN I WAS SPEAKING
WITH LORD MAYOR PALMER HE
MENTIONED THAT HE IS HERE IN
2008 AND ALSO DID A
PRESENTATION AND SO FOR ANYONE
WHO IS A PLANET WHO IS PLANNING
TO ATTEND THIS YEAR'S
PRESENTATION, YOU CAN USE OUR
ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
ARCHIVES AND ACTUALLY WATCH THE
TWO THOUSAND EIGHT PRESENTATION
AHEAD OF TIME AND PREPARE FOR
IT AND SEE SEE ALL OF THE GREAT
THINGS THAT HAVE BEEN HAPPENING
SINCE HIS LAST VISIT.
AND THEN I WILL ALSO ANNOUNCE
COUNCIL MEMBER DOSSEY EDWARD
AND I ARE HAVING OUR WARD THREE
OFFICE HOURS.
OUR NEXT ONE IS ON OCTOBER 1ST
FROM SIX TO SEVEN P.M. AT THE
BERN'S PARK SHELTER AND WE WILL
BE JOINED BY SPECIAL GUEST JOSH
LANDEFELD WHO IS OUR PARKS AND
RECREATION MANAGER.
SO WE WELCOME TO WELCOME
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY TO
ATTEND FURTHER COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON.
I'D LIKE TO THANK THE RESIDENTS
WHO JOINED ME AT MY OFFICE HOUR
YESTERDAY AND A BIG THANKS AS
WELL TO PARKS MANAGER JOSH
LANDEFELD FOR COMING OUT TO
SPEAK TO RESIDENTS ABOUT THE
PARKS AND THEN JUST A REMINDER
THAT THE FINAL VIRTUAL
INFORMATION SESSION FOR THE
NIXON CAWDOR IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT IS ON WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 18TH.
SO THIS WEDNESDAY FROM SEVEN TO
EIGHT THIRTY PM AND A ZOOM LINK
WILL BE POSTED THE DAY OF THE
SESSION AT 8:00 TO GOV. DUGIN
NIXON AND RUNOVER DIRECTLY
AFTER VISITING MAYOR POBER OR
THE COMMUNICATION
.
I'D LIKE TO REPORT BRIEFLY A
NUMBER OF COUNCIL MEMBERS AND
MYSELF HAD THE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO ATTEND SERVICES AND TO VIEW
THE PROTEST AT THE BETH ISRAEL
SYNAGOGUE THIS PAST THIS PAST
SHABBAT AND IT WAS I THINK AN
EXPERIENCE THAT ALL OF US WILL
WILL LONG RECOLLECT THE PROTEST
AS HAS BEEN ARTICULATED HERE AT
THE COUNCIL TABLE IS IS INDEED
A IT'S A STAIN UPON OUR IT'S A
STAIN UPON OUR COMMUNITY.
>> IT IS NATURALLY PROPAGATED
BY AN EXTREMELY SMALL SET
OF PEOPLE BUT NEVERTHELESS IT
IS SOMETHING WITH WHICH WE MUST
ALL RECKON UP FURTHER AS IS
KNOWN THERE HAS BEEN AN
INCIDENT OF ANTI-SEMITIC
VIOLENCE REPORTED JUST RECENTLY
ON THE ON AND NEAR CAMPUS AND I
KNOW THAT I WITHOUT HAVING
CHECKED IT BUT I AM EXTREMELY
CONFIDENT THAT THIS ENTIRE
COUNCIL AND INDEED THE ENTIRE
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION DECLARES
THAT TO BE INTOLERABLE AND THAT
WE CONDEMN IT ANTI-SEMITIC IT
NATURALLY TARGETS JEWS BUT IT
DEGRADES OUR ENTIRE COMMUNITY
BY STRIKING AGAINST PLURALISM
WHICH IT IS WHICH IS INDEED OUR
OUR FOUNDATIONAL VALUE.
ANTI-SEMITISM IS AN ENTIRE
PROBLEM OF OUR ENTIRE COMMUNITY
.
IT IS AN ENORMOUS PROBLEM.
AND WITH RESPECT TO THIS
PARTICULAR INCIDENT, ALL FOLKS
SHOULD KNOW THAT WE WILL
INVESTIGATE AND PROSECUTE TO
THE FULLEST EXTENT.
>> I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL ON
SEPTEMBER 3RD TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR TO THE ELIZABETH FUND
COMMITTEE ROBERT DAVENPORT TO
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
DREW DESDE IN MAY HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
QUINNELL SECONDED BY COUNCILMAN
FOR DENHA DISCUSSION OF THESE
APPOINTMENTS IN FAVOR PROPOSED
APPROVED WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CONSENT
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRING SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA ON FAVOR OH I'M
SORRY COUNCILMAN RACKMAN
.
YEAH THEY'RE JUST A COUPLE
OF ITEMS THAT I'D LIKE TO TALK
ABOUT BECAUSE THEY CONCERN ROAD
RECONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY.
ONE IS FIVE WHICH IS ABOUT
PROHIBITING ON STREET PARKING
AND A PORTION PAULINE BOULEVARD
TO FACILITATE THE INSTALLATION
OF PART OF OUR ALL AGES ALL
ABILITIES NETWORK.
AND EVEN THOUGH WHAT'S BEFORE
US IS IS TO APPROVE THE REMOVAL
OF THE PARKING, I'M
PARTICULARLY EXCITED ABOUT THIS
PROJECT BECAUSE I THINK IT
MIGHT BE ONE OF OUR FIRST MAJOR
COLLECTOR ROAD PROJECTS WHERE
WE'RE IMPLEMENTING RAISED
CROSSWALK SPEED BUMPS THINGS TO
MINIMIZE THE SPEEDS ON THAT
ROAD WHICH WE KNOW ARE SO
IMPORTANT TO SAFETY.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS
MY EXCITEMENT AND APPRECIATION
TO STAFF FOR THAT WORK.
AND THEN THE SECOND ONE IS
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING ABOUT
INSTALLATION AND TRAFFIC
CALMING DEVICES AND MARELLO
WHICH IS IN WARD FOUR AND
SOMETHING THAT I HEARD ABOUT AS
I KNOCKED ON DOORS IN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO AND YOU MIGHT HAVE
NOTICED THAT THERE WAS A NOTE
ACCOMPANYING THIS WHICH IS THIS
IS THE LAST TRAFFIC CALMING
PROJECT THAT'S GOING TO COME TO
THE COUNCIL FOR APPROVAL AS PER
THE RESOLUTION THAT WE PASSED
ABOUT A YEAR AGO TO MAKE THESE
THINGS MORE SPEEDY AND
EFFICIENT.
AND I'LL JUST NOTE THAT I
ACTUALLY HEARD FROM A RESIDENT
ABOUT THIS WHEN SHE SAW IT IN
MY NEWSLETTER AND SAID I
THOUGHT WE ALREADY THERE
ALREADY WAS A VOTE ON THIS
BECAUSE THEY PULLED THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I HAD TO
EXPLAIN TO HER NO, WE STILL
HAVE TO VOTE ON IT BUT I EXPECT
IT TO PASS AND THIS IS THE LAST
TIME THAT IT WILL HAVE TO GET
COUNCIL APPROVAL.
>> SO THANKS FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
THE CONSENT AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR
OPPOSED THE CONSENT AGENDA IS
APPROVED WITH TEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTING IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE TO SATISFY THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO SEE A FOUR C A SIX
AND C A TENANCY ELEVEN, WE NOW
COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT THE SPECIFIC
SUBJECT MATTER OF THE PUBLIC
HEARING TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC
HEARING ONE NEED NOT HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BUT YOUR
SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS TO SAY
THE SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA
TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
>> SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR CLERK
OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY
YOU WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
UP TO FIVE TWO ZERO THREE
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY EVENT
AABA THE HIGHCLERE USE AREA
BUFFER.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> MAYOR I DON'T HAVE ANY
CALLERS ON LINE WITH THEIR
HANDS UP
SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
SEVENTY FIVE LEAF BLOWERS
OF TITLE SIX THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC
?
MARY JANE?
SECOND WORD FIRST OF ALL, I'D
LIKE TO THANK THE COUNCIL FOR
APPROVING THE ORIGINAL LEAF
BLOWER ORDINANCE THESE MELCHING
PSALTIS MONSTERS HAVE BEEN
POISONING OUR FALL SEASON HERE
AND ARBER AND THE REST
OF MICHIGAN FOR THE LAST TWENTY
YEARS AND MORE SENSES THAN ONE
SO THIS ORDINANCE GAVE ME GREAT
SATISFACTION AND HOPE.
>> THE QUESTION HERE TONIGHT IS
WHETHER ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWERS
CAN PERFORM EFFICIENTLY ENOUGH
TO QUICKLY CREATE THESE BURN
BREAKS AT CONTROLLED BURN SITES
.
AT THE LAST MEETING STAFF
MENTIONED THAT THEY TESTED TWO
ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWER MODELS AND
THAT THESE PROVED TO BE TWO TO
THREE TIMES LESS EFFICIENT THAN
GAS POWERED BLOWERS.
MY QUESTION IS DID STAFF TEST A
BATTERY BACKPACK, ELECTRIC LEAF
BLOWER OR JUST THE HANDHELD
MODELS, THE BACKPACK BLOWERS
WHERE YOU STRAP THE LITHIUM
BATTERIES TO YOUR BACK ARE NOW
VERY EFFICIENT.
FOR EXAMPLE, RYOBI GREEN WORKS
AND IGOE ALL MAKE ELECTRIC
BLOWERS WITH POWER SPECS AT
LEAST ON PAPER COMPARABLE TO A
TYPICAL GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWER
.
THEY'RE HEAVIER.
TRUE THAT SHOULDN'T BE A DEAL
DEAL BREAKER.
I'D HAPPILY HOIST A HEAVIER
PACK BECAUSE IT WON'T ENDANGER
MY HEARING OR SPEW OUT INSANE
QUANTITIES OF CARBON MONOXIDE,
NITROGEN OXIDES AND NON METHANE
HYDROCARBON AS THE GAS VERSIONS
DO.
AS YOU KNOW.
SO IF STAFF HASN'T ALREADY I'D
SUGGEST GIVING ONE OR TWO
BACKPACK MODELS A TRY BEFORE
CONCLUDING THAT ELECTRIC ISN'T
GOOD ENOUGH FOR THE JOB.
MAYBE STAFF DID TEST ONE
OF THESE.
IF SO GREAT.
BUT IF NOT I DON'T THINK YOU
SHOULD APPROVE THIS EXCEPTION
UNTIL THAT'S DONE THERE DOESN'T
SEEM TO BE ANY GREAT HURRY ON
THIS SINCE THE VAST MAJORITY
OF THESE CONTROLLED BURNS
HAPPENED IN SPRING AND EVEN THE
ONE SCHEDULED FOR THIS FALL
SHOULDN'T HAVE A PROBLEM
BECAUSE MY UNDERSTANDING IS
THAT STAFF HAS OPTED NOT TO
ENFORCE THE ORDINANCE THIS YEAR
OR AT LEAST THAT'S WHAT THE
CONDO ASSOCIATION WHERE I LIVE
WAS TOLD SO YOU'VE GOT FIVE OR
SIX MONTHS TO DEAL WITH THIS.
I SUGGEST EXPLORING ALL THE
OPTIONS THOROUGHLY BEFORE
CARVING OUT ANOTHER EXCEPTION
TO THIS ORDINANCE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE WHO'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE YOU'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
>> ALEX LOWE ONLINE DO YOU HAVE
A COMMENT?
HI, THIS IS ERIC CALLING IN
FROM NASA SAID NO.
I THINK THAT MR. GARBER IS
PRETTY REASONABLE WITH WHAT HE
ASKED.
I THINK REGARDLESS OF WHAT THE
ANSWER TO THAT QUESTION IS,
MAYBE THE WAY TO DO THIS WOULD
BE TO HAVE THIS BE A TEMPORARY
EXCEPTION THAT GETS RENEWED
EVERY TWO YEARS, THREE YEARS,
FIVE YEARS, SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
SO SO THAT THE DEFAULT WOULDE
TO HAVE THE GAS LEAK.
BUT I'VE NEVER GO BACK INTO
ACTION WITHOUT THOSE EXCEPTION
AND THE EXCEPTION WOULD HAVE TO
BE ME EVALUATED EACH TIME
RATHER THAN DEFAULT OF THESE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP FOR THIS
HEARING
SEE NO ON THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
>> WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
REGULAR SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF SEPTEMBER 3RD.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MAY HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECOND MY COUNCIL MODISH
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES WELL
IN FAVOR POSED THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED B ONE IN ORDER TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE THAT TWO
ZERO THREE OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE STEPHEN ARBOR
HECHLER USE AREA BUFFER MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL SECURITY
COUNCIL PRIOR DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF B1 COUNCIL BRITISH.
>> I'VE SPOKEN ABOUT THIS
BEFORE SO I'LL BE VERY BRIEF.
THIS IS PURELY CORRECTIVE.
THERE IS NO CHANGE TO THE
REQUIREMENTS TO BUFFER
VEHICULAR USE AREAS WHICH
CONTINUE TO INCLUDE SCREENING
FROM WHITE RIGHT OF WAY
LANDSCAPING WITH INTERIOR
LANDSCAPE ISLANDS AND BUFFERS
ADJACENT TO PARKS AND
RESIDENTIAL ZONE PART PARCELS
CHANGES WERE MADE TO ONLY THE
PRESENTATION OF THIS
INFORMATION IN THE UDC THESE
CHANGES WERE INADVERTENTLY
OMITTED WHEN THE UDC WAS
UPDATED TO REFLECT THE
SUBSTANTIVE CHANGES OF THIS
COUNCIL MADE TO THE CONFLICTING
USE BARRIER REQUIREMENTS SORRY
CONFLICTING USE BUFFER
REQUIREMENTS THAT WERE APPROVED
IN FEBRUARY TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
SO REALLY WE'RE JUST CORRECTING
ESSENTIALLY SCRIBNER'S ERROR
HERE ESSENTIALLY FOR THE
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED B TO AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND CHAPTER SEVENTY FIVE
LEAF BLOWERS OF TITLE SIX
OF THE CODE OF THE SEVEN BANABA
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B TO
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
GIVEN THE QUESTION THAT WE
ACTUALLY JUST RECEIVED DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING, I WONDER IF
A MEMBER OF STAFF IS AVAILABLE
TO ARTICULATE WHICH LEAF
BLOWERS WERE TESTED, WHICH
ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWERS WERE
TESTED IN WHAT STYLE MR. TONY
MAYOR, WE HAVE DEREK DELACOURT
AND REMY LONG FROM STAFF.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
STRAIGHT TO THE ANSWER I HAVE
IN FRONT OF ME NOTES ON AT
LEAST ONE OF THE MODELS THAT
WAS TESTED BY FIELD STAFF.
IT WAS THE BIG STEEL THREE 300
WITH AN AO THREE THOUSAND
BATTERY WHICH AS IT'S NOTED
HERE BY STAFF IS THE MOST
POWERFUL ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWER
AVAILABLE THROUGH STEEL.
I DO NOT HAVE THE DETAILS ON
THE OTHER ELECTRIC MODEL BUT I
DO KNOW FOR CERTAIN THAT BOTH
WERE BACKPACK BATTERY POWERED
AND NOT HAND-HELD AND ALSO LIKE
TO THE IN WORKING WITH STAFF WE
HAVE NO DESIRE
TO CONTINUE TO
USE GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWERS
THE MINUTE AND STAFF IS GOING
TO PAY ATTENTION REGARDLESS
OF WHETHER THERE'S A YEAR OR
TWO YEAR THE MINUTES STAFF
FINDS AND ELECTRIC MODEL THAT
IS ABLE TO DO THE JOB IN A
MANNER THAT IS CONSISTENT WITH
THE SAFETY NECESSARY TO DO THE
JOB AND TO DO THE NUMBER
OF ACRES WE NEED TO DO TO
JUSTIFY THE PROGRAM.
WE'RE GOING TO SWITCH TO IT
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING WE'RE
HAPPY TO BE HERE ASKING FOR
SOMETHING THAT WE'RE DESIROUS
OF .
SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE
COUNCILOR WHERE PER THE
PREVIOUS CONVERSATIONS AND THE
ONES GOING FORWARD THIS IS
SOMETHING THE STAFF IS GOING TO
CONTINUE TO LOOK TO AND EVERY
OPPORTUNITY WE HAVE WE MAKE THE
TRANSITION TO ELECTRIC ELECTRIC
TOOLS.
WE UNDERSTAND COUNCIL DESIRES
AND THE NEED FOR THIS FOR OUR
EIGHT TO ZERO OR SO REGARDLESS
OF WHETHER THERE'S A TIMEFRAME
ON IT OR NOT.
AS SOON AS THERE IS A UNIT ABLE
TO DO WHAT WE NEED TO DO, WE'RE
GOING TO MAKE THE SWITCH.
>> THANK YOU.
AND WE'RE NOT PURCHASING ANY
NEW EQUIPMENT, CORRECT?
WE'RE JUST UTILIZING THE
EQUIPMENT THAT WE CURRENTLY
HAVE.
THANK YOU FOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL.
I WANT TO THANK THE PUBLIC
COMMENTERS MR. GARBER AND MR.
LOWE FOR THEIR FOR THEIR INPUT
BECAUSE I THINK SOME OF WHAT
THEY HAD RAISED REALLY
ARTICULATES WELL SOME OF THE
REASONS THAT THE BULK OF THE
REASONS WHY I VOTED AGAINST
THIS WHEN IT CAME UP AT OUR
LAST MEETING I DON'T SEE THAT
THERE'S A PLAN REALLY FOR
EVALUATING EMERGING TECHNOLOGY,
A TIMELINE FOR IT AND I'M I
APPRECIATE STAFF'S ASSURANCE
BUT I FEEL A LITTLE FRUSTRATED
THAT WE'RE TWO CONTRACTS INTO
GAS POWERED GOLF CARTS WITH NO
PLAN TO TRANSITION FROM THAT.
>> AND I UNDERSTAND THAT IT'S A
BUDGET ISSUE BUT I THINK I
WOULD BE VERY COMFORTABLE
POSTPONING THIS AND PUTTING A
TIME CAP ON THIS TO COME BACK
TO COUNCIL WITH SOME DATA
AROUND WHAT HAS BEEN DONE TO
ADVANCE THIS SO THAT WE ARE
ACTUALLY HAVING A FOCUS ON IT
AND STAFF AND COUNCIL ARE IN
ALIGNMENT IN TERMS OF TIMING
AND PRIORITIES FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
DO I NEED TO MAKE A FORMAL
MOTION, IF YOU WILL, MR. MAYOR?
IF YOU WISH IF YOU WISH TO TO
MAKE THEM TO MAKE THE MOTION
THAT YOU DO?
I WOULD LIKE TO I WOULD LIKE TO
POSTPONE THIS FOR CONTINUED
DIALOG WITH STAFF AND COUNCIL
AND BRING IT BACK AT THE NEXT
MEETING.
>> IS THERE A SECOND ON THE
POSTPONEMENT SEGMENT?
CALTHROP DISCUSSION ON THE
POSTPONEMENT COUNCILOR, I WOULD
LIKE TO KNOW FROM STAFF HOW
THIS POTENTIALLY IMPACTS
OPERATIONS AND USE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO CLARIFY THAT WE
ARE ENFORCING THE LEAF BLOWER
ORDINANCE.
IT'S JUST THAT YOU CAN USE GAS
POWER FROM OCTOBER TO MAY UNTIL
TWENTY TWENTY EIGHT SO WANTED
TO CLARIFY THAT POINT BUT I
WOULD LIKE TO KNOW WHAT THE
IMPACT TO STAFF OPERATIONS
WOULD BE IN THIS AREA FOR US TO
POSTPONE THIS LET ME SPEAK TO
DETAIL I DON'T THINK BOTH WILL
HAVE A GREAT IMPACT CURRENTLY
WE DO NOT HAVE ELECTRIC BOILERS
THAT WE WOULD BE COMFORTABLE
DOING BURNS WITH TO DATE WE
HAVE NOT ENFORCE THE CURRENT
ORDINANCE AND ALLOW THAT TO GO
FORWARD BASED ON THE FACT THAT
WE RECOGNIZE THE IMPORTANCE TO
THE ECOLOGICAL BALANCE THE
COMMUNITY TO DO THE BURNS I
WOULD BE STANDING IN TWO WEEKS.
THERE'S ANY TECHNOLOGY OR
ANYTHING THAT WOULD CHANGE
STAFF OPINION ABOUT THIS
DIRECTION.
WE IN THIS INSTANCE STAFF
DIFFERENT THAN A GOLF CART
WOULD BE HAPPY TO USE LEAF
BLOWERS.
IT'S NOT A FINANCIAL ISSUE AND
IT'S NOT A BUDGET ISSUE SIMILAR
TO GOLF CARTS AND HOW OUR
RECOMMENDATION WORK THERE IN
THAT INSTANCE WE WERE
RECOMMENDING AGAINST THE USE
OF THEM HERE WE'RE ONLY
RECOMMENDING THAT THEY DON'T
MEET THE NEEDS OF THE PROGRAM
AND WITHOUT THEM CURRENTLY
STAFF WOULD NOT RECOMMEND
MOVING FORWARD WITH THE BURN
PROGRAM SO IT DOESN'T REALLY
IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS MUCH BUT
ALSO I DON'T THINK BETWEEN NOW
AND THEN YOU'VE HEARD ME TALK
ABOUT WHAT THEY'VE TESTED
ALREADY THAT STAFF'S
RECOMMENDATION IS GOING TO
CHANGE MUCH IN THE NEXT TWO
WEEKS.
I AGREE WITH THAT ASSESSMENT.
YEAH, AN IMMEDIATE IMPACT TO
THE PROGRAM IS IS MINIMAL FOR
POSTPONEMENT LONG TERM IT IS
THE NATURAL AREA PRESERVATION
STAFF'S OBJECTIVE TO WORK
CLOSELY WITH THE PARK
OPERATIONS TEAM WHO IS ADOPTING
THE LATEST GREATEST MORE
POWERFUL LEAF BLOWER
TECHNOLOGIES AS THEY BECOME
AVAILABLE FOR THEIR OPERATIONS
WHICH ARE A BIT DIFFERENT THAN
THE NEEDS OF AN ELECTRIC LEAF
BLOWER IN A PRESCRIBED FIRE
OPERATION.
BUT WE STILL WOULD THEN HAVE
THOSE AVAILABLE TO US TO TEST
REGULARLY YEAR YEAR AS THOSE
THOSE TOOLS BECOME AVAILABLE TO
THE PARKS DEPARTMENT AS A
WHOLE.
SO WE PLAN ON REGULARLY TESTING
NEW TECHNOLOGY AS IT BECOMES
AVAILABLE AND GETS IN PARKS
HANDS.
>> YEAH BUT UNLIKE THOSE ARE
THREE YEAR LEASES WHICH WE
DECIDE ON THREE YEAR INCREMENTS
IN THIS INSTANCE THE MINUTE THE
TECHNOLOGY IS AVAILABLE WE'RE
GOING TO UPGRADE SO WE DON'T
HAVE ANY BUDGETARY REASON NOT
TO AND WE DON'T HAVE ANY DESIRE
TO USE GAS LEAF BLOWERS.
WE'RE NOT LOCKED INTO ANY
CONTRACT WITH THE EQUIPMENT WE
HAVE NOW SIMILAR TO GULFPORT'S
OUR GOLF CARTS THE INSTANT THE
TECHNOLOGY IS AVAILABLE AND
WE'RE TESTING WITH OTHER
DEPARTMENTS AS SOON AS WE CAN
USE IT WE'RE GOING TO MAKE THE
SWITCH.
>> SO COUNCIL NO BREAKS.
THANK YOU.
I THINK I HEARD MY COLLEAGUE
ASK FOR WAS NOT THAT THE
TECHNOLOGY MIGHT SHIFT WITHIN
THE NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS BUT
THAT THE A PLAN MIGHT BE
PRESENTED TO COUNCIL THAT MIGHT
SAY SIMPLY YOU KNOW, ON AN
ANNUAL BASIS OR EVERY TWO YEARS
OR WHATEVER THAT TIME PERIOD
MIGHT SEEM THAT MIGHT BE
LOGICAL.
YOU KNOW, THAT REPORT MIGHT
COME TO COUNCIL AND SAY, YOU
KNOW THIS THIS DECISION HAS
BEEN TECHNOLOGY HAS BEEN
EVALUATED AND WE'VE DECIDED TO
TRANSITION OR ALTERNATIVELY THE
TECHNOLOGY IS NOT THERE YET BUT
WE ANTICIPATE YOU KNOW, WE WILL
BE TESTING TO ANOTHER YEAR.
SO THAT'S THAT'S THE SORT
OF THE FEEDBACK AND SORT
OF ACCOUNTABILITY, YOU KNOW,
RECOGNIZING THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING THE STAFF IS ALREADY
SUGGESTING IS GOING TO HAPPEN
BUT IT PROVIDES SOME MORE
ACCOUNTABILITY TO US AS A CITY
TO BE, YOU KNOW, CARRYING ON
CARRYING OUT THE SAME
OPERATIONS THAT WE'VE ASKED THE
PRIVATE SECTOR TO DO.
>> YEAH, THEY'VE BEEN HELPFUL
THAT HAS NO OPPOSITION TO IT
BEING AMENDED ON THE FLOOR
RIGHT NOW AND NOT EVEN COMING
BACK TO WEEK AND HAVING US COME
BACK A YEAR WHATEVER TIME
FRAMES COUNCIL WANTS THE UPDATE
LIKE I SAID, IT'S A CHANGE WE
PLAN ON MAKING AS SOON AS IT'S
AVAILABLE.
SO IF YOU WANT TO AMEND IT TO
PUT THE TIMEFRAME IN NOW AND
THAT SAVES HAVING TO BRING IT
BACK, WE'RE GLAD TO ACCEPT THAT
PERHAPS IN THIS LIGHT WE CAN
JUST ANYONE WHO OBJECT TO THE
MOTION POSTPONE BEING WITHDRAWN
AND IN THAT LIGHT FURTHER IF I
MAY SUGGEST TWO THINGS ONE
ALTHOUGH THIS HAS BEEN A
COUNCIL TO STAFF CONVERSATION,
IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
THIS IS A ORDINANCE OF GENERAL
APPLICATION.
WE'RE NOT THE ONLY PARTIES THAT
CONDUCT ECOLOGICAL BURNS.
AND SO I THINK WHILE FOR MY
PART ALL THE CONFIDENCE IN THE
WORLD THAT IF THE BIG BAD
BLOWER WAS RELEASED TOMORROW
STAFF WOULD WOULD JUMP ON IT
THAT IS NOT PRESENTLY THE
ARTICULATION OF HOW PUBLIC
MIGHT RESPOND.
IT MIGHT MAKE SENSE.
YEAH, IT DOES MAKE SENSE TO ME
TO PASS THE ORDINANCE AS IS BUT
PUT A SUNSET ON THE CONDITION
SO THAT IT ONLY EXTENDS SAY FOR
TWO YEARS THROUGH THE END
OF DECEMBER THIRTY ONE TWENTY
TWENTY SIX IN THAT LIGHT STAFF
WOULD COME BACK TO US IN TWO
YEARS IF THE CONDITIONS
CONTINUED AS WAS OR WOULD HAVE
REPORTED TO US THEIR GREAT
SUCCESS IN FINDING AN EXCELLENT
LEAF BLOWER MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC WHO ARE ABLE TO COMPLY
WOULD COMPLY IF THEY'RE NOT
ABLE TO COMPLY THEY'D COME IN
AND REPORT ETC. THIS WAY WE AT
THE TABLE COULD BE ASSURED THAT
THIS WOULD WASH OUT IN TWO
YEARS AND THEN WE'D SEE WHAT
HAPPENED AND SO PERHAPS THERE
CAN BE THEN IN ADDITION SOMEONE
COULD MOVE AT THE END AND ALSO
FURTHER I GUESS I'D SAY BECAUSE
THIS DOES NOT INCREASE
RESTRICTIVENESS IT'S MY
PRESUMPTION THAT A SUNSET ON
THIS PROVISION WOULD NOT
REQUIRE A SECOND READING IS IS
THAT CORRECT, MISS CORE?
YES, THAT'S CORRECT.
THANK YOU
.
>> AND SO WHAT I THINK SHOULD
HAPPEN AND I'LL JUST FINISH MY
STATEMENT AND THEN IF COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SOMETHING TO SAY
THEN I.
I BAITED BREATH INTERESTED TO
HEAR IT AT THE END OF IT TO
PREPARE CONDUCT BLAH BLAH BLAH
OR ECONOMIC ECOLOGICAL
RESTORATION PRIOR TO DECEMBER
THIRTY ONE TWENTY TWENTY SIX
THAT WOULD BE THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENT ADDING PRIOR TO
DECEMBER 31 TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
THUS THE EXCEPTION WOULD WASH
OUT ON JANUARY ONE TWENTY
TWENTY SEVEN
COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA SO I THINK I'VE HEARD
THAT SUCH AMENDMENT WOULD NOT
REQUIRE US TO MOVE BACK TO
FIRST READING WHICH WAS ONE
OF MY CONCERNS.
I THINK THE THE OTHER THAT THE
OTHER PIECE THAT I WONDERED
ABOUT THOUGH I MEAN WHAT I WHAT
I HEARD MY COLLEAGUES
POTENTIALLY ARTICULATING WAS
RATHER THAT THEY'D LIKE TO SEE
A PLAN FROM STAFF TO REGULARLY
BE EVALUATING THIS AND FOR ALL
WE KNOW SIX MONTHS FROM NOW
THERE COULD BE NEW TECHNOLOGY
ON THE MARKET THAT COULD COULD
RENDER THIS ENTIRE AMENDMENT
UNNECESSARY.
AND I GUESS I WONDER IF RATHER
THAN APPLYING AN ARBITRARY
SUNSET AT WHICH POINT
WE MAY
HAVE TO COME BACK AND EXTEND
EXTENDED ALTHOUGH HOPEFULLY WE
WOULD NOT.
I WONDER IF WHAT WE'RE ACTUALLY
LOOKING FOR IS A SEPARATE
RESOLUTION DIRECTING STAFF TO
BE CONSISTENT EVALUATING THIS
SO THAT WE WOULD THEN AMEND THE
SEPARATE QUESTION.
BUT IT DOES ALTHOUGH I WORRY
THAT WE'RE CREATING A I WORRY
WE'RE CREATING A PROBLEM, WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO REVISIT IF IF
THE TECHNOLOGY HAS NOT CAUGHT
UP I'VE GOT DISH THEN PAKMAN
OK.
I'M NOT SURE IF YOU WERE SAYING
THAT WE'RE NOT SUPPOSED TO TALK
ABOUT THIS, MR. MAYOR.
BUT IF IF IT IS OK THAT WE TALK
ABOUT THAT I HEARD THE SAME
REQUEST FOR A PLAN AND I HEARD
THE PLAN ACTUALLY I HEARD THAT
IT'S IT IS THEIR OPERATING
PROCEDURE THAT MATH IS
ACQUIRING THE LATEST TECHNOLOGY
AS THEY REPLACE THEIR EXISTING
AND IS THROUGH KNAP THAT THE
TESTING OF NEW TECHNOLOGY IS
REGULARLY ROUTINELY DONE AND
THAT WHEN KNAPP SAYS HEY, WE
GOT A REAL GOOD ONE, THEY COULD
BE ADOPTED BY THE BY THE
CONTROLLED BUT I MEAN THE OTHER
PARTS OF MAPPING IT COULD BE
ADOPTED BY THE CONTROLLED BURN
PART.
IT WAS REALLY SAID MUCH MORE
CLEARLY BY MR. WONG BUT HE MADE
IT SOUND AS IF THE UPGRADING IS
ALREADY A ROUTINE AND IF WE
WANT THEM TO ARTICULATE THAT AS
A PLAN THEY WOULD HAVE TO DO
THAT.
BUT IT'S NOT CLEAR TO ME THAT
WE NEED THAT AND I THINK THE
SUNSET IS A GOOD IDEA FOR THE
REASONS THAT MR. MAYOR
ARTICULATED BECAUSE THIS POLICY
APPLIES TO PRIVATE CONTRACTORS
AS WELL AS THE CITY WHO WILL
NOT NECESSARILY UPDATE AS
QUICKLY.
SO IT'S MORE PRUDENT TO OFFER A
SUNSET IN MY OPINION I GOT BOB
BRIGGS IN ACTING WAS THAT CAN
BRIGGS MY APOLOGIES.
I GUESS I JUST WANTED TO POINT
OUT THAT WE ALREADY HAVE A
PATTERN SET FORTH IN THE
ORIGINAL ORDINANCE FOR SUN CITY
THAT IS THE SEASON IN WHICH
WE'RE ALLOWING THE GAS POWERED
LEAF BLOWERS BASICALLY DURING
HEAVY LEAF SEASON UNTIL TWENTY
TWENTY EIGHT AND SO I JUST THAT
WAS OBVIOUSLY A GAMBLE BASED ON
OUR KIND OF I DON'T KNOW SEEMED
LIKE A GOOD SPACE OF TIME TO
LET TECHNOLOGY EVOLVE AND BE
ABLE TO REPLACE EQUIPMENT AND I
GUESS I JUST WONDER IF MAYBE WE
SHOULD BE CONSISTENT WITH THAT
.
I DON'T KNOW INSTEAD OF TWENTY
TWENTY SIX AND TWENTY TWENTY
EIGHT AND THAT TO ME THIS
EXCEPTION IS SOMEWHAT
CONSISTENT WITH THE OTHER
EXCEPTIONS THAT WE HAVE IN
THERE.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE WE MIGHT WANT
TO FOLLOW SIMILAR PATTERN.
>> THE AMENDMENT HAS NOT YET
BEEN I'M NOT A MOVE I DON'T
MOVE AMENDMENTS SO THE
AMENDMENT HAS NOT YET BEEN
MOVED BUT Y'ALL COULD COUNT NO
BREAKS.
YEAH AND I WAS JUST I WAS GOING
TO CONCUR WITH YOU, MAYOR,
AROUND YOUR RECOMMENDATION FOR
A SUNSET AS OPPOSED TO A PLAN
COMING BACK TO US.
I THINK THAT RECOGNIZING THIS
APPLIES TO PRIVATE SECTOR, IT'S
USEFUL TO HAVE THE PRIVATE
SECTOR HAVE A SUNSET AS TO WHAT
THAT EXACT IS.
I WILL LEAVE THAT TO OTHERS TO
PROPOSE.
WELL, SOMEONE HAS TO PROPOSE
IT.
>> NO COUNCIL MEMBER COLONEL.
I PROPOSE THAT I DON'T THINK I
CAN SAY IT IS.
I THINK IT'S I THINK IF I
UNDERSTAND YOU CORRECTLY YOU
WISH TO ADD A SUNSET AFTER
ECOLOGICAL REGISTE RESTORATION
PRIOR TO DECEMBER THIRTY ONE
TWENTY TWENTY EIGHT SIX SIX
TWENTY TWENTY SIX IS THERE A
SECOND SECOND BY COUNCILOR
BRIGGS THERE IS NOW A SUNSET
AMENDMENT ON C AFTER REQUIRING
REGISTRATION PRIOR TO DECEMBER
31, 2012 SIX DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT COUNCILOR CRINOLINES
TO THE FLOOR I JUST BRIEFLY I
APPRECIATE COUNCILMAN RACHMAN'S
COMMENTS BUT MY UNDERSTANDING
IS THAT THESE BURNS TAKE PLACE
OUTSIDE OF THE TIMELINE IN
WHICH THE EXCEPTIONS HAVE BEEN
MADE AND I DON'T WANT I AGREE
WITH WHAT KNAP IS TRYING TO DO.
I THINK THIS IS THAT ABSOLUTELY
THE RIGHT THING.
>> BUT I I DO THINK THAT WE
NEED TO BE MORE SPECIFIC WITH
THIS USE BECAUSE OF THE TYPE
OF USE THAT IS HAPPENING.
IT IS NOT DURING JUST THE
EXCEPTIONAL PERIOD FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF IMMINENT
COUNCILOR DENHA, I APPRECIATE
WHERE THE AMENDMENT IS COMING
FROM.
I THINK ULTIMATELY GOING TO
VOTE NO I AM NOT NECESSARILY
COMFORTABLE IMPOSING AN
ARTIFICIAL DEADLINE ON THE
SUNSET WITHOUT KNOWING EXACTLY
WHERE THE TECHNOLOGY IS GOING
TO BE AND EXACTLY BECAUSE
APPLIES TO PRIVATE INTERESTS AS
WELL AS THE CITY AND KNOWING
THE FINANCIAL STRAIN THAT GOES
INTO MAKING TRANSITIONS FOR A
LOT OF THESE PRIVATE
BUSINESSES, THEY'RE GOING TO BE
THINKING ABOUT MAKING
TRANSITIONS SIX MONTHS BEFORE
THE THE DEADLINE AND NOT
KNOWING WHETHER OR NOT WE'RE
GOING TO EXTEND WHETHER IT
MEETS THE NEEDS OR NOT.
I JUST I THINK WE'RE I I'M JUST
NOT GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
FURTHER DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL
VOTE ON THE AMENDMENT STARTING
PLEASE WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
GARSIDE ONE HUNSBERGER OUTSIDE
ONE ON THE AMENDMENT AND THE
AMENDMENT NO.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCILOR IHR YES BECAUSE WE'RE
AKMAN NO COUNCILOR BRIGGS.
>> YES.
COUNCILOR CORNELL YES.
CUSTOMER DISH YES.
CUSTOMER ARASON NO CUSTOMER
SONG ABSENT COUNCILOR WATSON NO
COUNCILOR DENHA NO MOTION FAILS
FURTHER DISCUSSION THE MAIN
MOTION ON FAVOR THE MAIN MOTION
OPPOSED DO A ROLL CALL PLEASE
ROLL CALL VOTE PLEASE STARTING
WITH COUNCIL OVER EDWIN
COUNTERMARCH ZERO YES MAYOR
TAYLOR YES WE'RE IHR YES
COUNCILOR ACKMANN YES COUNCILOR
BRIGGS NO CUSTOMER KORNEL NOW
COMES KURDISH YES COUNCILOR
HARRISON YES COUNCILOR SONG
TATSUO WATSON THAT'S WHERE
DENHA YES MOTION CARRIES C ONE
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE REZONING OF POINT FIVE
ACRES FROM TDP TOWNSHIP
DISTRICT TO R-1 B SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING JUST TO MOVE PROPERTY
FOR HUNTINGTON PLACE MOVE BY
COUNCIL REDDITCH SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER YOU WERE
SECONDED COUNCIL MEMBER
WHATSITS
TO FURTHER DISCUSSION
SEE ONE WELFARE POSED IT IS
APPROVED THAT WAS AWESOME SEE
TO IN ORDER TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE REZONING AT POINT ZERO
FIVE ACRES FROM TBP TOWNSHIP
DISTRICT TO R-1 THE SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT THE
BRICKS MORE PROPERTY ONE ONE
ZERO ALBAY MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF C TO UNFAVORED POST IT IS
APPROVED C THREE AN ORDINANCE
TO AMEND CHAPTER ONE ZERO TWO
HOME ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE
OF TITLE EIGHT MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER OF DISH SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR IA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF C THREE CAST MEMBER IA THANK
YOU.
WE HEARD A GOOD QUESTION DURING
PUBLIC COMMENTS ON THIS ISSUE
SPECIFICALLY RELATED AND I'M
LOOKING FOR DR. STULTZ
DESIGNATION UP BUT SHE MIGHT BE
COMING BUT OK, UH FEEL FREE TO
MOVE ON TO SOMEONE ELSE THAN I
CAN HOLD MY QUESTION.
>> OK, DR STONE PAGING DR.
STULTZ.
SORRY.
OK OUR DELEGATION THANK YOU.
YES.
SO I WAS WONDERING IF YOU MIGHT
ADDRESS THE QUESTION THAT WAS
RAISED DURING PUBLIC COMMENT
RELATED TO STACKED UNITS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
SO WE HAVE COMPLIANCE IN HEARD
IS BASED ON WHAT THE US
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY ALLOWS YOU
TO GET HOME ENERGY SCORE ON AND
AS YOU HEARD DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT THAT PARTICULAR UNIT
THAT THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT
THAT DEVELOPMENT HAS LOTS
OF DIFFERENT KINDS OF HOUSING
AND SO WE NEEDED TO CLARIFY
WHICH OF THOSE HOUSING UNITS
CAN COMPLY WITH HEARD IN WHICH
YOU CANNOT BECAUSE THE US
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY TOOL
DOESN'T ALLOW THEM TO BE
ASSESSED.
SO WE DID ADD THAT
CLARIFICATION.
WE WORKED WITH A RETAILER.
WE ACTUALLY WORKED WITH THE
REALTOR ON THIS AMENDMENT WHERE
THEY WERE SELLING ALL OF THE
UNITS AS ONE PACKAGE AND THAT
QUALIFIES BECAUSE YOU CAN DO AN
ASSESSMENT IN THAT SPACE.
I KNOW THAT SOUNDS WONKY.
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING HERE
TO NOTE IS WE FOLLOW WHAT THE
US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY CAN
ACTUALLY ASSESS VERY
TRANSPARENT AND WORKING ON
ADMINISTRATIVE RULES THAT HELP
ALL OF THE COMMUNITY UNDERSTAND
WHAT IS IN COMPLIANCE, WHAT
NEEDS TO GO THROUGH HEARD AND
WHAT ARE THE DIFFERENT TOOLS
AVAILABLE TO HELP THEM DO THAT.
>> OK, SO IN ESSENCE THE
CONCERN THAT WAS RAISED HAS
BEEN ADDRESSED.
YES, I BUT I WOULD HOPE SO IF
YOU WAIT A BIT AND HE DID
CONTINUE HAVING CONVERSATIONS
BUT YES, WE INTENTIONALLY ARE
ATTEMPTING AND WHAT'S BEST FOR
YOU IS CLOSING ALL THE
CONVERSATIONS WE'VE HAD WITH
REALTORS, THE LOOPHOLES THAT WE
FOUND OR THE CHALLENGES TO HELP
CLARIFY AND MAKE THIS AS EASY
AS POSSIBLE TO PROTECT OUR
BUYERS IN THE COMMUNITY.
SO WE BELIEVE THAT IT HAS BEEN
THAT IT ACTUALLY RECTIFIES.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS.
YEAH.
SO I I ALSO RECEIVED SOME
FEEDBACK TODAY FROM FOLKS IN
THE REAL ESTATE COMMUNITY AND
PROBABLY I THINK THERE'S
OPPORTUNITY BETWEEN FIRST
READING AND SECOND READING TO
JUST CONNECT STAFF WITH THOSE
SOME OF THE COMMENTS THAT I
RECEIVED BACK PRIMARILY THEY
WERE SORT OF CONCERNS AROUND
SOME OF THE FEEDBACK THAT BOTH
THOSE IN THE REAL ESTATE
COMMUNITY WERE RECEIVING AS
THEY WERE TRYING TO GO THROUGH
THIS PROCESS AND ALSO SOME
OF THE FEEDBACK THAT WAS BEING
CONVEYED BACK OUT TO THE
COMMUNITY THAT MIGHT NOT BE AS
HELPFUL FOR US TRYING TO
ACHIEVE OUR BETTER ENERGY
RATINGS.
SO ANYWAY, I I'LL SHARE THAT
WITH YOU BECAUSE I THINK THAT
THERE'S A DESIRE MAYBE JUST TO
BETTER UNDERSTAND HOW THESE
WHAT THESE ORNAMENTS MEAN AND
IF THEY'RE REALLY YOU KNOW, IF
IT'S IF NOW IS THE TIME TO TO
UPDATE THE ORDINANCE SO QUICKLY
THEREAFTER.
BUT I THINK THERE'S AN
OPPORTUNITY TO TO TO GO THROUGH
SOME OF THESE CONCERNS HAVE
BEEN RAISED.
THANKS, COUNCILOR CORDELL.
DR STULTS, BEFORE I MAKE A
PUBLIC DECLARATION OF SOMETHING
THAT MIGHT NOT BE TRUE, I'M
GOING TO ASK YOU THE QUESTION
IS DOING PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE ALSO HEARD THAT THERE IS AN
AWKWARDNESS WHEN THE HOME BUYER
AND THE HOME SELLER ARE IN THE
SAME ROOM.
WOULDN'T THE SELLER'S AGENT BE
ABLE TO PROVIDE THE DISCLOSURE
RATING?
>> SO THAT'S NOT ALSO ACCURATE
FEEDBACK, CORRECT?
YEAH, NO, CERTAINLY IT COULD BE
ON THE TABLE.
THEY COULD TELL THEIR AGENT TO
PROVIDE IT ONE HUNDRED SAID
THAT COULD BE THAT WOULD BE IN
COMPLIANCE.
OK, THAT'S IT.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
YES.
COUNCILOR DISH FURTHER
DISCUSSION
FOR MY PART I'M
GRATEFUL FOR THE THE HOME
ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE IS AN
IMPORTANT PART OF OUR MOVING
BUILT ENVIRONMENT TOWARDS
BETTER FLATTERY TO ZERO GOALS
AND PROVIDING BUYERS AN
IMPORTANT METRIC BY WHICH TO
EVALUATE THE HOME THAT THEY'RE
PURCHASING.
AND I THINK IT'S A GOOD THING
I'M DELIGHTED THAT WE ARE
WORKING TOWARDS REFINING IT
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FABER
POSED IT IS APPROVED SEE FOR AN
AUDIENCE TO ADD A NEW SECTION
SECTION NINE ONE FIVE FIVE ONE
OF CHAPTER ONE TWELVE
NONDESCRIPT SECTION OF TITLE
NINE OF THE CODE THIS THE ARBOR
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DESH
SECOND BY COUNTY EMERGENCY
EDWIN DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C
FOR COUNCIL BOGOSIAN ONE THANK
YOU ER SO FIRSTLY I WANT TO
SINCERELY THANK EVERYONE WHO
CAME TONIGHT TO SUPPORT THIS
ORDINANCE ESPECIALLY THOSE WHO
COURAGEOUSLY SHARED THE
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES OF WORKING
WITHOUT WITHOUT SAID WHICH I
THINK BRINGS MUCH NEEDED
CONTEXT AND URGENCY TO THIS
ISSUE.
>> I ALSO WANT TO EXTEND MY
THANKS TO A DEPUTY CITY
ATTORNEY MARVY RATUVA MY
CO-SPONSORS, THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION AND EVERYONE ELSE
WHO CONTRIBUTED TO CRAFTING THE
ORDINANCE AND RESOLUTION I AND
OTHERS.
I'VE BEEN WORKING ON THIS
INITIATIVE FOR ALMOST A YEAR
AND ONCE IT WAS READY EARLIER
THIS WEEK I WANTED IT TO BE
PUBLISHED THE AGENDA TO REALLY
GIVE THE PUBLIC AN OPPORTUNITY
TO ENGAGE WITH THE MATERIAL
FULLY UNDERSTAND ITS
IMPLICATIONS.
THIS IS ALSO AN IMPORTANT
ORDINANCE CHANGE AND I BELIEVE
IT'S ESSENTIAL TO ENGAGE BOTH
THE LABOR AND THE BUSINESS
COMMUNITIES TO ADDRESS ANY
REMAINING QUESTIONS AND CLEARLY
OUTLINE THE BENEFITS, IMPACTS
AND IMPLICATIONS
OF IMPLEMENTING THIS ORDINANCE.
>> I WOULD APPRECIATE OUR TIME
TO ENSURE THAT THIS IS DONE
THOROUGHLY AND MAYOR, WHAT MAY
I JUST MAKE A MOTION TO
POSTPONE?
ABSOLUTELY SO THEREFORE I WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION TO
POSTPONE THIS ORDINANCE AND
RESOLUTION TO THE OCTOBER SEVEN
CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA.
>> THE POSTPONEMENT ON DC ONE
WILL NEED TO OCCUR DURING DC
ONE YES.
SO THERE'S A MOTION ON THE
FLOOR TO POSTPONE SEE FOR THE
ORDINANCE TO THE FIRST MEETING
ON OCTOBER MAVOR IS THERE A
SECOND SECOND BY COUNCILMAN
CORNELL?
IS THERE A DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT?
>> COUNCILOR MCCONNELL I REALLY
WANT TO THANK MY COLLEAGUE
COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN IN
THE LAST FEW DAYS THERE'S BEEN
A LOT OF FEEDBACK ESPECIALLY
FROM THE HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY
INDICATING CONFUSION AROUND
WHAT THIS MIGHT MEAN, WHAT THE
ACTUAL ENFORCEMENT MIGHT LOOK
LIKE, WHO DEFINES REQUIREMENTS
AND DUTIES OF A JOB.
AND I THINK IF WE TAKE JUST
THIS EXTRA TIME I APPRECIATE
YOUR WILLINGNESS TO DO IT AND
ENGAGE WITH SOME OF OUR
HOSPITALITY PARTNERS.
I THINK THAT THIS WILL JUST BE
MADE STRONGER AND A LITTLE BIT
MORE UNDERSTANDABLE BECAUSE
THIS IS A GREAT IDEA AND SO
GETTING I THINK GETTING THE
BUSINESS COMMUNITY EXCITED
ABOUT THROUGH A LITTLE BIT
OF EXTRA EDUCATION IS TIME IS
WORK WORTH DOING.
>> SO THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
GUYS.
HE HAD ONE FURTHER DISCUSSION A
POSTPONEMENT COUNCILOR.
>> I MUST CONFESS I DIDN'T KNOW
MUCH ABOUT THIS ISSUE UNTIL IT
APPEARED ON OUR AGENDA AND I
STARTED DOING RESEARCH AND I
APPRECIATE THE PEOPLE THAT CAME
IN PERSON TO GIVE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
I WORKED IN THE HOSPITALITY
INDUSTRY FOR OVER A DECADE.
I KNOW WHAT IT'S LIKE TO BE ON
YOUR FEET ALL DAY BUT WAS NOT
REALLY AWARE OF THIS AS SUCH A
CUTE, YOU KNOW, ISSUE I ALSO
APPRECIATE THE TIME BECAUSE I
WANT TO HEAR FROM SMALL
BUSINESS COMMUNITY AS I READ
THIS I WAS CONCERNED IS IT TO
BEG LIKE LIKE COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL SAID WHO DECIDES
WHETHER A JOB CAN BE DONE
SITTING DOWN AND WHEN WHO WILL
BE DOING THE ENFORCING?
WHAT WILL BE THE IMPLICATIONS?
AND I THINK THAT'S PROBABLY
JUST A LITTLE BIT OF MY LACK
OF KNOWLEDGE ABOUT THE THE REST
OF THE SECTION WHERE THIS SITS
WITHIN ORDINANCE BECAUSE MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT IT FITS
WITHIN OTHER THINGS THAT THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
EVALUATES.
BUT I WOULD JUST I THINK I
APPRECIATE THIS POSTPONEMENT
BECAUSE I THINK IT GIVES ALL
STAKEHOLDERS THE OPPORTUNITY TO
LEARN MORE AND FOR US TO HEAR
FROM THEM SO I SUPPORT THAT
FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF POSTPONEMENT ON FAVOR POSED
IT IS POSTPONED DC ONE
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF AN
ORDINANCE TO ADD SECTION NINE
ONE FIVE FIVE ONE TO CHAPTER
ONE ONE NONDISCRIMINATION RIGHT
TO SET MOVE BY COUNCILOR GARCIA
AND SECOND BY COUNCILOR.
>> THIS DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
ONE COUNCILOR GARCIA ANYONE.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I THINK I'VE STATED MY REASONS
FOR WHY I THINK THAT THIS
SHOULD BE POSTPONED AND I HOPE
TO AGAIN ENGAGE WITH THE
VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS BEFORE I
BRING THIS WORD AGAIN.
>> SO YOU'RE LOOKING FOR A
MOTION TO YOU'RE MOVING TO
POSTPONE IT TO THE FIRST
MEETING OF OCTOBER.
THAT'S EXACTLY SUPER OK.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND IF
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION OF THE POSTPONEMENT
COUNCIL NO BRIGS THEY DIDN'T
SPEAK IN THE LAST ONE.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK THE
COUNCIL MEMBER GUYS WHO HAVE
BEEN FOR BRINGING THIS FORWARD
THE SPONSORS AND YOUR
CO-SPONSORS AND ALSO TO THE
FOLKS WHO HAVE BEEN HERE TODAY
SHARING THEIR STORIES AND
ADVOCATING FOR IT.
I'M FULLY IN SUPPORT OF THIS.
I THINK THERE'S YOU WISDOM IN
TAKING TIME TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE DO THE OUTREACH THERE WITH
OUR COMMUNITY, WITH OUR
BUSINESS COMMUNITY LABOR AS
WELL JUST TO MAKE SURE THAT
FOLKS REALLY UNDERSTAND WHAT
THIS MEANS AND THAT WE HAVE
FULL BUY IN BECAUSE I THINK
IT'S IT'S VERY SENSIBLE AND
REASONABLE AND SOMETHING THAT
JUST BENEFITS OUR COMMUNITY AS
A WHOLE.
>> FOR ME EVERYTHING THE
COUNCIL MEMBERS JUST SAID
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR DC
ONE OH POSTWOMAN THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> ALL FAVOR THE POSTPONEMENT
POSED IT IS POSTPONED TO
RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING CREATIVE
WASHTENAW AS A CIVIC NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION OPERATING IN ANN
ARBOR FOR THE PURPOSE
OF OBTAINING A CHARITABLE
GAMING LICENSE BY COUNCIL AND
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION OF DC TO
COUNCILOR AKMAN I JUST WANT TO
USE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO TALK
ABOUT WHAT THIS EVENT IS AND
BASICALLY IT'S CREATIVE
WASHINESS BENEFIT TO CELEBRATE
THE ARTS AND CREATIVE
INDUSTRIES AND WASHTENAW
COUNTY.
NEDA ULABY FROM NPR WILL BE THE
EMCEE AND ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO BE DOING
AT THIS MEETING IS RECOGNIZING
THE OUTSTANDING SERVICE OF DOUG
POLIC WHO IS RETIRING.
SHE RECENTLY ANNOUNCED HER
RETIREMENT.
AS MANY OF US KNOW, SHE'S BEEN
A CHAMPION FOR ARTS IN THE
CREATIVE INDUSTRIES FOR OVER 30
YEARS AND OUR COMMUNITY.
SO PART OF IT WILL BE
RECOGNIZING HER AND SO I'D JUST
LIKE TO EXTEND MY GRATITUDE FOR
HER WORK IN THIS COMMUNITY AND
HOPEFULLY SOME PEOPLE CAN SHOW
UP TO THIS EVENT FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR HOSED IT IS
APPROVED DC THREE RESOLUTION
FOR COUNTY MILEAGE REBATE USE
CO-SPONSORS WILL MOVE TO
POSTPONE UNTIL OCTOBER SEVEN
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MOVI
ACCOUNTS NO BRIGG'S SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
FOR MY PART I'D LIKE TO BEFORE
POSTPONING I WANT TO SAY VERY
BRIEFLY AS FOLKS KNOW BACK IN
TWENTY AND HAS BEEN RECOUNTED A
PUBLIC COMMENT BUT IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN COUNCIL PASSED A
HOUSE RESOLUTION PROVIDING
ASSURANCE TO THE VOTERS THAT
COUNCIL INTENDED TO USE THE
REBATE ASSOCIATED WITH THIS
MILEAGE THAT GOES TO POLICING
JURISDICTIONS WOULD USE THOSE
MILEAGE MONIES FOR COMMUNITY
PRIORITIES THAT WERE WERE THEN
UNDERFUNDED.
THE BUILDING OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING, THE ACCOMPLISHMENT
OF OUR CLIMATE ACTION PLAN AND
THE PROMOTION OF PEDESTRIAN
SAFETY WITH
THE SUCCESS OF THE
MILEAGE OF THE PAST NUMBER
OF YEARS AND THE OUR FRIENDS AT
THE COUNTY BOARD
OF COMMISSIONERS BRINGING THE
MILEAGE FORWARD AGAIN TO THE
VOTERS THIS TIME IN NOVEMBER
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR IT IS USEFUL
FOR US PROPER FOR US TO
DESCRIBE TO THE VOTERS HOW THE
COUNCIL INTENDS TO USE MILEAGE
MONIES THAT WILL COME BACK TO
IT AS AS A POLICING
JURISDICTION IN THE FORM OF A
REBATE.
THOSE MONIES COMING BACK TO THE
CITY ARE ENTIRELY ON ALLOCATED
CAN BE USED FOR ANY PURPOSE.
THE MONIES COLLECTED DURING THE
FOR THE MILEAGE THAT FOR PUBLIC
SAFETY ARE INDEED DIRECTED TO
PUBLIC SAFETY.
THE MONIES COLLECTED UNDER THE
MILEAGE FOR THE PURPOSE
OF MENTAL HEALTH ARE INDEED
DIRECTED TO MENTAL HEALTH.
THESE MONIES ARE INTENDED BY
THE MILEAGE LANGUAGE AND THE
MILEAGE AUTHORS' TO BE DIRECTED
BACK TO JURISDICTIONS THAT HAVE
POLICE DEPARTMENTS IN
UNALLOCATED FORM THAT'S COMING
BACK TO US AND IT'S GOING TO BE
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF ABOUT
THREE MILLION DOLLARS A YEAR.
THE CO-SPONSORS AND I ARE EAGER
I HOPE THAT MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC AND COUNCIL ARE AS WELL
TO CONTINUE TO SUPPORT AND
ADVANCE AREAS OF PUBLIC
INTEREST THAT ARE INDEED
PRESENTLY UNDERFUNDED 20
PERCENT TO ADVANCE PEDESTRIAN
SAFETY 20 PERCENT UP 40 PERCENT
TO FUND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES FOR
THE RESIDTS OF URBAN HOUSING
COMMISSION PROPERTIES AND 40
PERCENT BROADLY SPEAKING TO
ADVANCE AND AND WORK A PROGRAM
OF UNARMED RESPONSE IN
ANTICIPATION OF THE CREATION
AND THE DEVELOPMENT THAT OUR
RESPONSE PROGRAM THE LANGUAGE
IN THE U.S. RESOLUTION WOULD
PERMIT THE CITY TO HOLD ONTO
MONIES OF ANTICIPATING SUCH A
PROGRAM AS AS FOR THE CREATION
OF SEED CAPITAL, THIS I THINK
IS PROPER FOR US TO COMMUNICATE
TO THE VOTERS THAT THEY WILL
KNOW HOW THE COUNCIL INTENDS TO
USE THIS THESE MONEYS GOING
FORWARD.
IT'S WORTH NOTING THAT THE USE
RESOLUTION IS NOT BINDING
UNLIKE SOME OTHER CONTEXTS.
IT IS HOWEVER A IN MY VIEW AND
IN AS HAS BEEN DEMONSTRATED IN
SOME OF THE WARS WE'VE HAD OVER
FORD FOR FORMER FORTY FORTY
TWENTY RESOLUTIONS, IT IS MY
VIEW IN MY VIEW A A TRUE AND
EARNEST PROMISE TO THE VOTERS
OF HOW THIS COUNCIL WILL
CONTINUE TO VOTE IF THE VOTERS
CONCLUDE TO ENTRUST THE COUNCIL
WITH MONIES THAT WILL COME TO
THE VILLAGE THROUGH THEIR
AUTHORIZATION OF THE VILLAGE.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCILOR
HARRISON.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
THIS RESOLUTION ADDRESSES
URGENT COMMUNITY BY ALLOCATING
FUNDS FOR VITAL SERVICES THAT
DIRECTLY IMPACT THE WELL-BEING
BAND OF OUR RESIDENTS.
THE NEIGHBORHOODS AND
COMMISSION PROVIDES AFFORDABLE
HOUSING TO SOME OF OUR MOST
VULNERABLE POPULATIONS WITH
OVER 60 PERCENT OF RESIDENTS
LIVING WITH A DISABILITY BY
FUNDING CRITICAL SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES LIKE MENTAL HEALTH
CARE, EVICTION PREVENTION AND
JOB TRAINING, WE HELP RESIDENTS
MAINTAIN STABLE HOUSING AND
REDUCE THE DEMAND FOR EMERGENCY
RESPONSES BY CONNECTING THEM
WITH CASEWORKERS AND SOCIAL
SERVICES IN ADVANCE OF A
CRISIS.
>> IF WE'RE SPENDING THE
CAPITAL TO BUILD HOUSING THEN
WE SHOULD BE DOING EVERYTHING
WE CAN TO ENSURE RESIDENTS FEEL
SAFE AND SUPPORTED IN THEIR
HOMES.
PROVIDING STABLE HOUSING IS
JUST ONE PART OF THE EQUATION
TO TRULY FOSTER A RESILIENT AND
THRIVING COMMUNITY WE NEED TO
OFFER SERVICES THAT SUPPORT
MENTAL HEALTH CONFLICT
RESOLUTION AND DAILY LIVING
SKILLS.
THE HOUSING COMMISSION HAS
CREATED A PROVEN MODEL
OF SUCCESS THROUGH ITS
PARTNERSHIPS WITH LOCAL
NONPROFITS AND BY FUNDING THESE
SERVICES WE ARE COMMITTING TO
THE WELL-BEING AND LONG TERM
SAFETY OF THE PEOPLE LIVING IN
THEM.
THE PERCENTAGE ALLOCATION IN
THIS PROPOSAL IS ESSENTIAL TO
IT TO ITS SUCCESS.
BUT ON A CRISIS RESPONSE IS
CRUCIAL.
IT ALONE CANNOT ADDRESS THE
ROOT CAUSES OF MANY EMERGENCIES
BY ALLOCATING FORTY PERCENT
OF THE FUNDS TO SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES FOR THE AND OUR
HOUSING COMMISSION RESIDENTS WE
ARE TAKING A PREVENTATIVE
APPROACH.
THESE SERVICES LIKE MENTAL
HEALTH CARE, ADDICTION
TREATMENT AND CONFLICT
RESOLUTION HELPED TO AVERT
CRISIS A CRISIS BEFORE THEY
REQUIRE AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
WITHOUT THIS FUNDING WE WOULD
BE PLACING A BAND-AID OVER THE
PROBLEM RATHER THAN TACKLING IT
AT ITS SOURCE.
IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT THE ENTIRE HOUSING
COMMISSION RESIDENTS ALREADY
HAVE TRUSTED RELATIONSHIPS WITH
CASEWORKERS AND SOCIAL WORKERS
WHO ARE TRAINED IN TRAUMA
INFORMED CARE.
THIS FUNDING ENSURES THAT
CRITICAL RELATIONSHIPS REMAIN
INTACT AND REDUCES THE NEED FOR
EMERGENCY PREVENTION
INTERVENTIONS.
IT'S ESSENTIAL TO ALLOCATE
THESE FUNDS OUT OUT OF THE
BUDGET SEASON SO RESIDENTS CAN
SEE THE CLEAR DIRECTION WE'RE
TAKING.
WE ARE PRIORITIZING AND ON
CRISIS RESPONSE PUBLIC SAFETY
AND SUPPORTIVE SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES ALL OF WHICH ALIGN
WITH THE VALUES OF AN NEIGHBOR
RESIDENTS BY ENSURING THAT
SERVICES LIKE THOSE OFFERED BY
THE END OF OUR HOUSE AND OUR
HOUSING COMMISSION ARE FUNDED,
WE ARE NOT ONLY ADDRESSING
IMMEDIATE NEEDS BUT ALSO
LEADING THE WAY IN CREATING A
SAFER, MORE COMPASSIONATE
FUTURE FOR EVERYONE IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
AND THE DISCUSSION.
PERHAPS WE COULD HAVE AN
AMENDMENT TO REMOVE THE
BRACKETED LANGUAGE FROM THE
TITLE PRIOR TO IT COMING BACK.
>> IS THERE A SECOND IS THAT
FRIENDLY?
THE BRACKETED LANGUAGE IN THE
TITLE IS REMOVED NOW PERHAPS
CAN WE HAVE A MOTION TO
POSTPONE IT TO OUR FIRST
MEETING IN OCTOBER SO
COUNCILMAN HARRISON SAY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA IS THE DISCUSSION
IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED?
>> IT IS INDEED POSTPONED.
>> DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE
TODAY OF A CLOSED SESSION?
>> NO THANK YOU.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MAY HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCILOR
CORNELL SECONDED BY COUNCILOR
YOUR DISCUSSION OF THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
THANK YOU MR MAYOR.
I HAVE A SERIES OF FIVE PRETTY
SUCCINCT QUESTIONS AND ONE
COMMENT THAT I WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS TO THE ATTORNEYS ABOUT
PETER WHICH IS THE FIRST REPORT
ON THE FAIR ELECTIONS FUND
PETITION INITIATIVE AND THE
LETTER THAT WE RECEIVED THE
LETTER THAT WAS RECEIVED FROM
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER MR
THOMAS IS HERE TO ADDRESS YOUR
QUESTIONS.
OH, THANK
OK SO IS IT TRUE THAT
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S LETTER
ASSISTS THE GOVERNOR IN THE
GOVERNOR'S STATUTORY REVIEW
OF ALL PROPOSED CHARTER
AMENDMENTS AND IN THAT CAPACITY
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FINDS THAT
THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT WITH
WOULD CONFLICT WITH STATE
UNIFORM WITH THE STATE UNIFORM
BUDGETING AND ACCOUNTING ACT.
IT IS THEREFORE NOT CONSISTENT
WITH THE HOME CITY ACT.
POMEROL CITY ACT REQUIRES THE
GOVERNOR TO REVIEW ALL PROPOSED
CHARTERS AND CHARTER AMENDMENTS
THAT COME BEFORE ANY COMMERCIAL
CITY AND TRADITIONALLY THE
GOVERNOR HAS FORWARDED THOSE ON
TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO
ADVISE HER AND AND THAT REVIEW
OF THE OF THE AMENDMENTS HERE
THAT THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OPINION THAT
THIS PROPOSED AMENDMENT, THE
FAIR ELECTION FUND CONFLICTED
WITH THE LIKE YOU SAID, THE
UNIFORM BUDGETING ACT AND WAS
THEREFORE RUNS AFOUL OF THE
HOME RULE ACT REQUIREMENT THAT
ANY CHARTER AMENDMENT BE
CONSISTENT WITH STATE LAW.
THANK YOU.
AND THEN ISN'T IT ALSO TRUE
THAT THERE'S A SECOND FINDING
WHICH DERIVES FROM THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL'S OWN STATUTORY ROLE TO
EVALUATE THE PROPOSED BALLOT
LANGUAGE FOR CONFORMITY WITH
THE SECTION TWENTY ONE OF THE
HOME RULE CITIES ACT WHICH
GOVERNS REQUIREMENTS FOR BALLOT
LANGUAGE?
AND ISN'T IT TRUE THAT THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL FINDS THAT THE
LANGUAGE IS INCOMPLETE BECAUSE
IT DOESN'T DISCLOSE THAT LACK
OF CONFORMITY WITH STATE LAW?
>> CORRECT.
YEAH, LIKE LIKE THE GOVERNORS
POSSIBLY UNDER THE HOME ROSIES
ACT THE ATTORNEY GENERAL HAS A
SEPARATE RESPONSIBILITY TO
REVIEW THE BALLOT LANGUAGE
THAT'S GOING TO BE ON THE
BALLOT TO SEE IF IT'S ACCURATE,
IF IT'S UNDER ONE HUNDRED
WORDS, IF IT'S NOT BIASED ONE
WAY OR THE OTHER.
AND IN THAT REVIEW THE
ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE AMENDMENT
FOUND THAT BECAUSE HE FOUND
THIS PREEMPTED BY STATE LAW
THAT THE THE BALLOT LANGUAGE AS
PROPOSED IS NOT ACCURATE.
>> THANK YOU.
ACTUALLY YOU JUST SUMMED UP SO
DID THREE SO I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT PEOPLE LISTENING
UNDERSTAND THE CONFLICT BETWEEN
THE PROPOSAL AND STATE ALSO
ISN'T IT TRUE THAT THE PRECISE
CONFLICT IS THAT THE INITIATIVE
REQUIRES A SPECIFIC ANNUAL
BUDGET APPROPRIATION TO CREATE
AND MAINTAIN THE FAIR ELECTION
FUND?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OPINION THE
STATUTE HERE REQUIRES AN ANNUAL
APPROPRIATION BY THE CITY
LEGISLATIVE BODY CITY COUNCIL
IN THIS CASE ANNUALLY AND
BECAUSE THIS PROPOSED CHARTER
AMENDMENT WOULD REQUIRE THE
EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS, THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL THOUGHT IN HIS
OPINION IT CONFLICTED WITH IT
WAS PREEMPTED BY STATE LAW.
>> OK, COUNCILMAN, YOU ARE
YOU'RE AT YOUR THREE MINUTES
THERE.
ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES TO
DISCUSS THE SUPPORT AND THEN
PERHAPS COUNCIL MEMBERS OF YOUR
SECOND GO AROUND?
BUT BEFORE WE SEE THAT AT THIS
TIME NO FURTHER DISCUSSION, THE
CLERK'S COUNCIL MODISH.
>> THANK YOU.
ISN'T IT TRUE THAT THE CITY
CLERK WAS OBLIGATED TO CERTIFY
THIS BENGUIAT BALLOT LANGUAGE
WHICH IT TURNS OUT IS NOT
ACCURATE BECAUSE THE PETITIONS
WERE SUBMITTED VERY CLOSE TO
THE CERTIFICATION DEADLINE?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
I BELIEVE.
I'M NOT SURE EXACTLY WHEN THEY
WERE SMART.
I BELIEVE IN LATE JULY AND THE
CLERK WAS OBLIGATED TO CERTIFY
ALL THAT LANGUAGE TO THE COUNTY
CLERK AUGUST 13TH THIS YEAR.
>> AND FINALLY, ISN'T IT TRUE
THE GOVERNOR'S OFFICE SENT OUT
A LETTER ASKING FOR
MUNICIPALITIES TO SUBMIT
PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENTS AT
LEAST 60 DAYS PRIOR TO THE
CERTIFICATION DEADLINE?
>> YES, THAT'S CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
CLERK'S REPORT.
CATHERINE BRIGS.
I DON'T HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO MAKE A
COMMENT THAT JUST ANYBODY WHO'S
WATCHING TO MAKE THAT CLEAR
THAT THIS ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO TO
READ THE LETTER THAT'S ATTACHED
TO E TO IT CLEARLY SAYS THAT
THIS BALLOT PROPOSAL DOES NOT
MEET STATE LAW AND I ENCOURAGE
VOTERS TO VOTE NO FURTHER
DISCUSSION CAST MEMBER DENHA
PERHAPS HAVE ONE QUESTION FOR
THE CITY CLERK WERE THE WORDS
THE INITIATOR OF THE PETITION
NOTIFIED OF THE REQUEST FROM
THE GOVERNOR'S OFFICE TO SUBMIT
THE SIGNATURE OR SUBMIT THE
PETITION LANGUAGE WITH ENOUGH
TIME FOR REVIEW?
>> YES, THE CURRENT STATE LAW
DOESN'T NECESSARILY MATCH UP TO
THE REQUESTED 60 DAY REVIEW
PERIOD SO WE WOULD STILL ACCEPT
PETITIONS.
THERE'S ALSO A SEPARATE
PROVISION THAT WE HAVE 45 DAYS
TO CHECK THE SIGNATURES AND
MAKE THE CERTIFICATION SO WE DO
GIVE PETITIONERS A RECOMMENDED
TIMELINE THAT INCORPORATES THE
REVIEW PERIOD AS WELL AS THE
GOVERNOR'S REQUESTED REVIEW.
>> THANK YOU.
I THINK FOR THAT REASON I THINK
IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT THE THE CIRCULATORS
OF THIS PETITION WE'RE AWARE
OF THE RECOMMENDED DEADLINES
THAT WERE NOT MET AND AS A
RESULT WE ARE NOW IN THIS
POSITION WHERE UNFORTUNATELY
THIS DESPITE BEING IN CONFLICT
WITH STATE LAW PER THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL'S OFFICE, WE'RE
REQUIRED TO PUT IT TO VOTERS
AND I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
EXPRESS MY CONCERN THAT SHOULD
PROPOSAL D IN THIS CASE THE THE
ENTIRE FAIR ELECTION FUND PASS
THIS NOVEMBER, IT WILL
IMMEDIATELY SEND THE CITY INTO
LIKELY COSTLY LITIGATION
WHETHER THE CITY ENFORCES IT OR
DOESN'T.
SO IF VOTERS ASK US TO ENFORCE
IT, WE WOULD BE GOING AGAINST
IT AND ATTORNEY GENERAL OPINION
IF WE DID SO AND IF WE DON'T, I
EXPECT THAT WE WILL BE SUED FOR
NOT ENFORCING IT.
AND SO EITHER WAY IF THIS WERE
TO PASS, THE CITY IS GOING TO
BE EMBROILED IN A LAWSUIT AND
SO I WOULD ALSO ENCOURAGE
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE COURT
SUPPORT AS WE WILL IN FAVOR
POST THE CLARK SUPPORTERS
APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY?
>> NO, THANK YOU, MAYOR.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW, MAY I HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCILOR GRINNELL'S
THINKING COUNCIL BRACKMAN
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OPPOSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED